Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 16 May 1997.
Mr President, the first item on the order of business is a communication from the Commission on urgent political matters of major importance.
Mr President, you will recall that since Christmas this House has taken a special interest in the case of Roisín McAliskey who was incarcerated in Holloway Prison in England.
Mr Andrews, this is not the time or way for expressing your opinions on the subject.
Mr President, I should like to propose on the basis of Rule 96 that you should take the Tomlinson report off today's agenda and reschedule it for the second June part-session.
We are being asked to discuss the budgetary guideline or provisional reports here in Brussels.
I think that we should also mention the fact that the Intergovernmental Conference is due to take a decision on the headquarters issue and we should not anticipate that decision but continue to discuss budgetary questions in Strasbourg.
There are two subjects: the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Turkey-Iraq relations.
Situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo With the change of power in Kinshasa, the moment has come to turn back to the broader picture of the Great Lakes region and Central Africa, since none of the many crises in the region has been durably settled.
A daunting potential for further violent conflict and humanitarian disasters still prevails in the new Democratic Republic Congo and its nine neighbours.
In the present crucial phase of political reorganization in the Democratic Republic Congo, this lack of control over the armed forces can cause serious difficulties.
Furthermore, the spill-over of the Zaire conflict into neighbouring countries could have long-term consequences, notably in Congo-Brazzaville and the Central African Republic, where the arrival of former Rwandan soldiers risks upsetting a precarious political and military balance.
In Angola the possible return of 'mercenaries' of MPLA or UNITA origin may jeopardize the peace process which has already been aborted once before by an escalation of violence in the aftermath of the 1992 elections.
If the situation deteriorates further, it could approach low-key ethnic warfare as in the case of Burundi.
A new and preoccupying element is the reported alliance between militias Babembe and the armed Burundi opposition, the CNDD, in South Kivu.
In the new Democratic Republic of Congo, Laurent Kabila announced the formation of a new government within a presidential framework.
The fact that one of the main leaders of the opposition to Mobutu, Etienne Tshisekedi, has been left out, despite good arguments, has been perceived as somewhat self-defeating.
That is absolutely unacceptable and the European Union has made that quite clear not only in its communique but in a recent meeting held between our envoys and the Laurent Kabila's foreign minister.
Thank you very much, Mr Pinheiro.
I should like to refer to the declaration made on 22 May 1997 by the Presidency on behalf of the European Union in which many of these elements were contained.
Therefore, it is very important that a clear calendar of commitment to the constitutional process and free and fair elections should be established as soon as possible.
The role which the United States played in all the phases of the situation until Kabila took power has not been fully appreciated.
The European Union has already expressed its point of view and its willingness to help in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the new Democratic Republic Congo.
The only reason why I did not go into detail with regard to the humanitarian situation was because I had already gone three minutes over my time.
But Emma Bonino was absolutely right in pinpointing the humanitarian problem as a dramatic one.
The financial support into the whole of the Great Lakes region over recent years has been very considerable.
Our intention now, as I explained to this House a few months ago, is that once some peace and stability is achieved, the Commission is prepared to implement a global plan of reconstruction and rehabilitation in the Great Lakes region.
I sincerely hope that before the summer this will be clarified.
The consideration is the following: clearly, in a situation such as that in the former Zaire, now the Democratic Republic of Congo, where - as has been pointed out here - a major power is conspicuously present, Europe must avoid being sidelined and excluded from the relations which that country and its new government will establish in the future.
The current situation in northern Iraq is seriously hampering the humanitarian assistance that the Commission is providing for the area through the ECHO programme.
The previous operation in 1995 involved 30 000 troops and around 50 tanks.
What was needed now was a political initiative to deal with some of the problems the Kurdish people living in those areas had.
Now just a few weeks later we see 50, 000 Turkish troops invading Northern Iraq to deal with what they claim to be the PKK terrorism in those lands.
She is now in government with an Islamic Prime Minister in Turkey.
Would the Commissioner agree with me that this House and that the Commission and the Council have been manipulated by the Turkish military and civilian authorities and that it is incumbent on us to expose the duplicity of the Turkish Government and military for the Turkish people?
Parliament has also expressed the wish in our discussions that all forms of financial aid or instruments should be provisionally frozen if they are not being used directly or indirectly to improve the human rights situation in Turkey.
The debate is closed.
the recommendation for second reading on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a Council Regulation on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies (C4-0174/97-96/0247(SYN)) and II.
As you know, at the Dublin European Council, on 13-14 December 1994, a political agreement was reached on the general principles and main elements of the Stability Pact.
The European Council also called for the preparation of a draft resolution on the Stability Pact to be adopted, recording the commitments of the Member States, the Commission and the Council to a strict application of the Treaty and the legal provisions of the Stability Pact.
Secondly, the European Council's decision to opt for a strict application of the Stability Pact and, at the same time, the fact that the Council changed its name to the Stability and Growth Pact.
The title has changed but the content has remained more or less the same.
The inclusion in the regulation of surveillance for the Member States not participating in stage three of EMU is an important new element.
Whereas the original proposal by the Commission foresaw only the submission of convergence programmes by those Member States participating in stage three of EMU, there is now a separate section on the submission of convergence programmes by Member States not participating in it.
They are included in one text and all of them have been approved by the Committee on Budgets.
To conclude, I propose, as rapporteur, an amendment to the common position on the regulation on surveillance and an opinion on the regulation on deficits, in accordance with the amendments adopted by our Committee, thereby concluding the second reading.
Madam President, the economic trends in the European Union, and above all the employment policy trends, must be viewed with grave concern, and for that reason the broad guidelines for the economic policies of the Member States and the Community are particularly important.
I feel that this is genuinely important, because people are the raw material of the European Union, and any kind of investment in people - whether in terms of providing them with qualifications, further training or lifelong learning, or through accompanying measures such as research and development and support for innovation - will help us to make real progress within the European Union.
I would also urge once again that we in the European Union should work towards integrating our policies and directing them towards achieving a high level of employment.
We must make a real effort, through our policies, to bring about the kind of synergy effects which can no longer be achieved by an individual country for the benefit of its own economy and people.
Madam President, with too little time but with great interest we have analyzed, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, the regulations which are the subject of today's debate.
We have done so in the light of our great concern, which could be none other than the effects on employment, on our social model, of the measures to be adopted in the framework of both of these regulations to supervise the economic policies of Member States and introduce surveillance over public deficits in the run-up to this exciting event for the European Union which is now nearly upon us.
Therefore, it is obvious that only if we have a stable and controlled budgetary situation and if our economies are converging can we coordinate efficient, job-creating employment policies.
Therefore, I also think that - apart from the need for the Council to take into account the unemployment rate and the rate of job-creation when examining the stability and convergence programmes - in order to adjust its objectives, it must also analyze not only the size of deficits but also the type and, therefore, to pay particular attention to public expenditure, in particular, on education, training, investment and infrastructures, which have beneficial effects on Europe's regions, especially in times of crisis.
We must also contemplate the overall situation of a country before imposing sanctions on it as heavy as those foreseen in the regulation on excessive deficits and, at the same time, it seems to me a good procedure to help to add to the credibility and confidence in the future European monetary union.
On the other hand, in relation to the economic guidelines for 1997, nobody doubts that the European Union is, at this moment in time, facing a challenge which can only be compared with its very birth.
Unemployment, the European Union's most serious problem, cannot only be measured in figures, because above all it is the young, women, elderly, disabled, citizens who will blame us if we do not achieve our main objective in this adventure of ours, that of creating jobs.
On the other hand, workers harming other workers, as has recently occurred in the case of attacks on Spanish lorry drivers, imbalances and injustices in the social security systems or an excessively rigid labour market in Europe are factors that seriously hinder progress towards our European project.
Therefore, the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, while recognizing the Commission's efforts in the form of these major economic guidelines which we are debating, once again wishes to voice its concern at the high level of unemployment in the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgets focused its attention on the methods to be used for recording and applying the sanctions laid down for Member States violating the 3 % rule in future.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate offers yet another possibility for examining the Stability and Growth Pact and the main thrust of economic policy.
The Pact and the coordination of economic policies will ensure sustainable stability, growth and employment in Europe.
First of all, I should like to specify a number of points on the Stability and Growth Pact.
Those preoccupations are, first of all, the definition of an improved interinstitutional balance within the Pact and, secondly, strengthening the role of public investment.
Therefore, the Commission is in a position to accept most of the amendments tabled by your rapporteur, namely Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, on the resolution of the European Council, Amendment No 4, first part, Amendments Nos 5 and 8 on public investment and expenditure, and Amendments Nos 6, part 2, and 9, part 2, on the regulation based on Article 103.5.
Similarly, the Commission is willing to accept Amendments 1, 2, and 4, part 2, to Regulation 104.C.
A word on the fines, in other words Amendment 5 to the regulations.
I recall that, although there has been no Council decision, the European Parliament can of course vote on an amendment on this text concerning fines.
I recall that the European Parliament is delivering its opinion on the modified proposal of the Commission.
I now come to the main guidelines of economic policy which are an essential instrument for improving the coordination of economic policy in Europe.
On the basis of this encouraging fact, the Commission recalls that only a strict respect of the convergence criteria can enable us to pursue the 'policy mix' and thereby contribute to a sustainable improvement in growth, and in turn lead to the creation of employment and productive investment in Europe.
In this framework, the main guidelines are intended, as your Assembly demanded in its resolution on the annual economic report, to give a further boost to the European Union's economic strategy.
The creation of employment results from strong, sustainable and balanced growth.
The positive results in terms of convergence make it possible to pursue the policy mix which serves both growth and employment.
Secondly, like the European Parliament, the Commission is well aware of the essential role played by demand in the growth process.
In order to stimulate the net creation of jobs, the Commission is therefore recommending this year an improved coordination of the economic policies of Member States, including those related to employment matters.
I must recall that, at its initiative, surveillance over employment was set up back in 1995.
On the basis of the programmes presented every year by the Member States, a joint report by the ECOFIN Council and the Social Affairs Council was adopted by the European Council at the December meeting.
Indeed, current surveys already show growing confidence among producers, and investment profitability in the European Union is at its highest level since the 1960s.
Any relaunch of investment should concern private investment - 85 % of the total, may I recall - as a priority, and in all forms: physical, immaterial and human investment.
But the Commission also recommends maintaining public investment and expenditure, especially on the trans-European networks.
As you know, this expenditure is vital if the European Union is to be given a sustainable growth potential in the medium term.
I did not entirely understand the Commissioner, and I should like to know if he would be prepared to include Parliament's proposals in his draft for the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the Member States and the Community.
I should like to ask him to take another little look at Amendment No 4 to the first regulation, Recital 10, given that, in its own position, as it was presented to the Council, the Commission accepted that amendment.
Mr Christodoulou and Mrs Randzio-Plath, the Commissioner will have the floor again at the end of the debate to answer your questions.
At the moment investment represents 19 % of GDP.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the stability pact is undoubtedly one of the major steps on the road to European monetary union, and the question of whether it can be approved, on schedule, in Amsterdam is crucial.
As you have heard in the debate, certain differences of opinion exist - between Parliament and the Commission, but in particular between Parliament and the Council - concerning the stability pact.
We must vote on the Christodoulou report tomorrow.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is vital, on such an important subject, first of all to recall some very simple principles.
The greatest challenge that we have to face in most of our countries is that of unemployment.
Public deficits have never created jobs, otherwise we would have too many jobs now.
Similarly, growth must, in the medium term, be encouraged by demand and sustained by judicious investment coming mostly from competitive companies, at the rate of 85 %.
We see that, in Europe today, demand is recovering on a healthy basis, which ought to stimulate investment.
We are also convinced that the adoption, as soon as possible, by the European Parliament of the text proposed to us concerning excessive deficits and strengthening the surveillance and coordination of budgetary policies is absolutely vital if we are to have the text finalized in time for the Amsterdam Summit.
Finally, today we wish to congratulate the Commission which has succeeded in making sure that budgetary surveillance is exercised in the future not only on a country-by-country basis but also in the European Union as a whole.
Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Liberal Group on the Christodoulou reports.
On the Stability Pact, the Liberal Group welcomes the emphasis placed by Parliament on the need for interest on deposits and on fines which arise under this pact to be, in principle, assigned to own resources.
Under no circumstances, having secured additional commitments from the Council and recognizing the critical importance of the Stability and Growth Pact to EMU, will my group be prepared to postpone the vote tomorrow.
It will be resumed after the debate on the European Council meeting of 23 May 1997.
European Council of 23 May 1997 The next item is the Council report and Commission statement on the results of the European Council meeting of 23 May 1997.
I should like to give you a brief report on the informal meeting of the European Council held in Noordwijk on 23 May.
A week or so before the meeting in Noordwijk, the presidency issued a kind of summary working document which had no official status, but simply gave the presidency's view of how the negotiations had gone so far and clearly indicated to the contracting parties where we stood and how we were to proceed on the basis of the presidency's proposals.
The text, and indeed the overall situation in the negotiations, were discussed in advance at an informal meeting of the group of personal representatives which was held in Houthem near Maastricht on 16 and 17 May.
Among these was the review, which covered the inclusion of more specific provisions on human rights in the Treaty, the introduction of the principle of non-discrimination, a chapter on employment, the reintroduction and consolidation of the social protocol and the removal of the United Kingdom's opt-out, a new legal basis for openness and transparency, the consolidation of the European Parliament's legislative role and the simplification of procedures, the extension of the powers of the Court of Justice - particularly under the third pillar, and the combating of fraud.
Nevertheless, it appeared from the general assessment made by the Heads of Government at Noordwijk that there was a clear political will, already seen at the conference at The Hague on 20 May and now confirmed in Noordwijk on 23 May, to bring the IGC to a successful conclusion with an Amsterdam Treaty at the Amsterdam summit.
Finally, Mr President, there is something that is not directly connected to the European Council but follows on from what you said at the beginning of your address to the Council of Ministers three weeks ago.
Thank you very much, Mr Patijn.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, barely three weeks from the European Council in Amsterdam, where the Intergovernmental Conference must conclude its work, this is a good moment for assessing the progress made so far and to reflect on the objectives of the Conference following the recent informal European Council in Noordwijk.
Secondly, the Opinion of the Commission of 28 February 1996, which is a point of reference for expectations for the Conference.
The Conference was convened with three aims: to boost political union, prepare the Union for enlargement and meet the terms of reference of the Maastricht Treaty which, on certain issues, already foresaw the convening of the Conference in 1996 and which, inter alia , sought the establishment, in the future Treaty, of the identity of a common European defence.
The first point has already been dealt with by the Presidency of the Council.
Europe needs a far-reaching reform, to strengthen its democratic legitimacy, to improve the effectiveness of its institutions, to meet the concerns of its citizens, and to enable us to speak with a single voice in the international arena.
As far as bringing Europe closer to its citizens is concerned, in my view there are two major questions: employment and social policy, and cooperation in judicial and internal matters.
As far as employment is concerned, the Conference's work has led to a so-far positive result, in that there is a consensus among the Member States that the new Treaty should include a chapter on employment.
In the framework of the Essen Strategy, the inclusion of specific provisions on employment will make it possible to improve the coordination of national policies and will also to consider employment as a question of common interest for all Member States, to facilitate the exchange of experiences and to be more effective in the fight against unemployment throughout the European Union.
However, I must express my concern over one very practical point: the risk that incentives for job creation might well disappear from the original text because of opposition from certain states.
As far as social policy is concerned, the social protocol will be included in the future Treaty, thereby putting an end to the anomalous situation accepted in Maastricht.
This process, initially based on a right of initiative shared between the Commission and the Member States, with unanimous decision-taking, would lead to a final stage when the Commission would have a monopoly of the right of initiative and decisions would be taken by a qualified majority.
Secondly, a substantially improved third pillar with new judicial instruments and, for the first time, the participation of the European Parliament and a certain role, albeit limited, for the Court of Justice.
Thirdly, integration of Schengen into the Treaty, through a protocol which would make it possible to integrate into the Union strengthened cooperation between various states over the 'Europe of Security' which has been developed so far, as everyone knows, outside the Treaty.
I wonder how we could explain to our fellow citizens that, after so many months of negotiations, it was impossible to make any progress on this subject.
In order to enjoy a high level of protection in respect of all Community policies, the main novelty is, in the new Article 129, new judicial bases guaranteeing the adoption of binding rules by a qualified majority and in codecision with the European Parliament.
I think it is absolutely vital that the European Parliament's full participation in this should be guaranteed.
I think that, on this score, the future Treaty will introduce improvements to the instruments and procedures for decision-taking.
I think that it will also be possible to facilitate decision-taking by the use of qualified majority by means of a mechanism separating decisions by consensus in the European Council and by majority in the Council of General Affairs.
I am not going to insist on the subject of financing the common foreign and security policy, since it was referred to just a moment ago by the Presidency of the Council.
In the past, Article 113 permitted a common and effective action in respect to our partners in the trade of goods.
Nowadays, as you know, commercial trade is developing at a growing rate, especially in terms of services, intellectual property and investment and, therefore, Article 113 must be adapted to this new situation.
Unless we continue to modernize our common commercial policy at this Conference, Europe will have lost a perfect opportunity to locate itself at the forefront in terms of our competitors and I must confess to you that I am very much concerned by the fact that, in the run-up to the final negotiations, the text drafted by the Presidency might again be weakened and could even lead to a regressive wording.
If that were the case, I think that it would be preferable to make no modifications at all and actually maintain the current version of that Article.
The Commission's subject was the subject of debate at the informal European Council in Noordwijk and has already been referred to extensively by the Presidency.
One subject mentioned was that of strengthening the powers of the Presidency of the Commission, and the effectiveness and legitimacy of the European Parliament, through ratification of the designation of the European Council.
We in the Commission have repeated until blue in the face that maintenance of unanimity in an enlarged Union would lead to paralysis.
It is possible to allow exceptions and qualified majority for constitutional matters and quasi-constitutional matters, the accession of new Member States or own-resources, but qualified majority must be the rule if we are to prevent the European Union from hurtling towards paralysis and ineffectiveness.
Codecision is a basic principle which must lie behind the constitutional structure of the European Union itself, both for economic and social matters and all areas affecting the rights and obligations of our fellow citizens.
It seems to be unthinkable that, in the future, the European Union could do without political mediation representing all social forces and European citizens when taking decisions that are to set the trend for various policies.
But, for me, the important thing at this moment in time was to make an appeal to all the political forces present in the European Parliament over the situation facing the Intergovernmental Conference.
The next three weeks will be decisive as to the model of European Union that we wish to design for the future.
The final negotiations will be very tough, compromises will be difficult, national interests on many subjects will be divergent, and nothing has yet been decided, nothing has been won or lost for good.
To renounce that objective would mean renouncing our own destiny, weakening the ability of the Union and each of our fellow citizens, and refusing to be present on the international economic and political stage.
I give the floor to Mrs Green.
Commissioner Oreja was just a bit more realistic, if not to say a bit more honest in his assessment of the way in which we think it is going.
We want a positive outcome to the Amsterdam Summit.
It is important that we make politically clear that the citizens of the European Union are concerned about job creation.
If we are serious about a chapter in the Treaty that deals with job creation, our citizens do not just want pious words.
But we want to see some strengthening of that social protocol as well.
My group will be assessing the Treaty on whether it meets the aspirations of the people of the Union.
Over the years, I have listened here in the House to a number of great speeches by great Europeans, and in recent weeks I have found myself recalling two such addresses, one by former Italian President Sandro Pertini and one by Václav Havel.
The Council presidency is in fact seeking to extend qualified-majority voting in the area of commercial policy under Article 113 to decisions on services, investments and copyright, for example.
There have in fact been virtually no instances of a qualified-majority decision, even with regard to internal market legislation, where any country has had to sacrifice its national interests, or lost a vote.
A number of Member States have not yet considered the fact that positions which, in their own national interest, they have so far unanimously supported will have dramatically different implications in an enlarged Community - not least from the point of view of national interest.
We are still debating the principle of sovereignty, but still only in terms of its formal aspects rather than its real substance, and ordinary people are several steps ahead of us here.
Thank, Mr Brok.
I give the floor to Mr Azzolini.
We cannot believe that, as the eminent Spanish professor, Rafael Gómez Pérez, put it, the European ideal is now a spent force.
But we believe that Europe has much to offer to itself, its own citizens, and the whole world.
As the European Union's powers increase, however, a solution must be found to the serious problem of its democratic deficit: powers - and, consequently, democratic control - cannot be removed from the national parliaments merely to increase the powers of unelected decision-making bodies.
An expanding Europe, which is seeking a high-profile political presence on the world stage and aiming to become dependable and strong, must enter into a clear pact with its citizens: either their full sovereignty is recognized, through democratically elected institutions with full powers, as in any democracy, or they will feel that they inhabit not a common home, but a mere geographical entity with centrally controlled and remote supranational institutions.
It is clear that every group has its own desiderata.
Here are the four points on which we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party will judge whether or not Amsterdam is a success.
Thirdly, a common foreign and security policy will not work without the necessary instruments.
He said so in a friendly tone, but he has shown considerable concern on behalf of the Commission, and I wish to express considerable preoccupation in the European Parliament on behalf of the ten million citizens who voted for the parties belonging to our group - and we are a small group.
Just look, Mr Patijn, at the quantity of voters who supported the bigger groups, because this European Parliament is not an academic corporation for debating or analysing, but it is a representative body, as you well know, and respect, of European citizens.
We do not think that there is going to be genuine codecision in areas as important as the budget and legislative processes.
The European Parliament has a certain mistrust, and we have to take major steps forward towards political union.
On the common foreign and security policy, there is no political will to take those steps and, as for promoting economic and social policies at the service of the ordinary people, we are very much afraid that we are not going to achieve this.
I do not have enough time to talk about the lack of solutions for the problem of enlargement.
This is a purely transitory situation but I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we should not leave everything for the Conference to the last minute and I hope that we are not going to end up with a few crumbs which will be no solution for the problems of the European Union, its peoples and its citizens.
The draft treaty that has been submitted is not an adequate response to the social, environmental and democratic crisis in which the Union finds itself; not only is it inadequate in terms of reform, but it is also steering us in the wrong direction.
So it will scarcely come as a surprise that the European Parliament may not get the additional rights that were spoken of by the third great European of the week, Elmar Brok, but may in fact end up with fewer rights, for example in the budget.
Instead of rejoicing, we ought to be on red alert, because this Maastricht Treaty Mark II will make the future of Europe less secure. (Applause from the Green Group) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council - as well as the chairman of the representatives negotiating the new draft treaty - whether he has noticed the rare degree of unanimity which has so far echoed around this House in our comments on what is taking place, and on the draft text which he himself has referred to in optimistic terms, unless I am mistaken.
The reaction in the House seems to me to indicate the level of concern felt in Parliament, concern expressed likewise by the Commission, moreover.
Please remember: 16 and 17 June represent an important stage, of course, the stage at which you had hoped to conclude these negotiations.
It seems to me, however, that you have reached it in the worst possible way, through a series of set-pieces, with only minimum agreement on the minimum content of a revised Maastricht Treaty.
Never before has European foreign and cooperation policy been as negative as in recent years, since the CFSP was codified, and never before has it led to such political inertia.
Please think this through and bear in mind that, if there is not yet sufficient substance, 17 June might perhaps not be the last opportunity to finalize the new draft treaty.
The social clause alone is not enough, and nor is the social protocol; there is little cause to be optimistic concerning the outcome of the Amsterdam European Council next month.
And how much attention is being paid to the fears and anxieties of the 370 million EU citizens in this process?
This government is practising what it preached in opposition and has determinedly opened a new chapter in its relationship with the rest of the European Union.
As has been said, there are still difficult issues which need to be resolved: free movement, the future of the WEU, the number of Commissioners and the vexed issue of flexibility.
Mr President, after the informal European Council meeting in Noordwijk, the Dutch presidency said that the discussions had been constructive, and that the Heads of Government were determined that there should be an Amsterdam Treaty.
Parliament has always proposed that it should have the right to dismiss Commissioners who fail in their duties - what is the position on this?
Parliament currently has the final say on around two thirds of the legislation and two thirds of the budget.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Dutch presidency is reluctant to appear before the House.
But I wonder whether the President of the Council might not be more afraid of Parliament than he needs to be.
Looking at the motions which have been tabled, it would seem that the majority in the House is afraid that Parliament might end up cast in the role of Don Quixote in a battle of the giants between Member States, Council and Commission.
Mr President, I welcome the manner in which the representatives of the newly-elected UK Government have been received by the European Council.
It is surely clear as we enter a new millennium that Europe is not and cannot be a rigid unification but rather a rich diversification.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, this non-paper contains a chapter which claims to deal with an effective and coherent foreign policy.
As for the proposals from the troika, in my view it is right to set out what are in some respects transitional measures here, and I do not think that the powers of the Commission are being reduced; on the contrary, I believe that it is also very important for the Commission to be in a position of strength.
What has been said about the decision-making process is important too.
The same is true in relation to the chapter on foreign and security policy, and in other areas too: Parliament's role is grossly undervalued.
I would therefore call on the Council to give Parliament a voice - in other words, to give the democratically elected representatives of the people a voice - on foreign policy, as on other issues.
The process of European construction, as I see it, must be coherent and consistent, in particular because it is aimed primarily at people.
I should like to conclude expressing the hope that, nevertheless, we will stop speaking about Maastricht in June and that a new era in European construction will begin.
The lack of a common foreign policy and security policy will only accentuate domestic problems of insecurity and lead to questions about the famous Community solidarity, while in the international arena the European Union is often left weak and undependable.
There is the agreement that human rights principles should be clearly taken into consideration in the Council's political actions and in the Court of Justice's judicial practice, and the acceptance of the anti-discrimination clause.
The employment chapter is no longer really in dispute.
Job creation requires 100 % joint effort from all the organs of the European Union in every area: the operation of the internal market, a liberal trade policy, effective flanking measures in the social field and on cohesion and the Structural Funds, an effective transport policy, and help in establishing trans-European infrastructure.
We are now in the run-up to the final negotiations and the final ministerial meetings were held on 20 May, and the European Council on 23 May, and at this moment in time we are constantly in negotiations.
Consequently, this debate has been extremely enriching for me.
I think that the Presidency has played an important role throughout the recent months, but I should like to point out that, right now, we are on one of those levels from which it would be extremely dangerous to come down.
Mr Brok referred to the fact that Europe must serve its citizens and he referred to an article which seems to me to be extremely important, namely Article 113.
Therefore, we must unite to improve the defence of the interests of companies, citizens, Europeans, and therefore I think that it is essential - yet we have not done this so far.
Mr Azzolini mentioned that Europe needs a political dimension, and that is a dimension which we really must find.
There is unanimity and a very solid position in many areas and I think that this is something that we will take into account, in particular.
I should like to say that we still have a lot of room for manoeuvre and the European Parliament must play an extremely important role as it represents national sovereignties and European sovereignty.
Thank you very much, Mr Oreja.
The debate is closed.
Already last year, the House was advocating a policy mix as a means of moving beyond the obsession with stability.
Primarily because the no-bail-out clause in the Treaty is going to be a paper tiger in practice.
The European Union is clearly going to be taking a serious risk if it follows the timetable for EMU in the Treaty.
On the other hand, if such measures were to go significantly beyond the coordination of economic policies which is provided for in Article 103, this would require an amendment to the Treaty, with all that such a step involves.
But this will require a new, interventionist element in economic and budgetary policy, an element that will involve amending primary legislation and will therefore, under the terms of Article N, have to be dealt with by the national parliaments.
The matter is all the more serious given that we know that after EMU we can expect that competition between the Member States, which is often much greater than people realize, will be focused on social security and wages.
The European Central Bank will dictate monetary policy.
The only remaining weapon will be budgetary policy, which it should be possible to use, especially in countries with low rates of public indebtedness, to fund investment which would generate employment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group agrees with the basic analysis presented by the Commission on the major thrust of the policies of the Member States and the Community as a whole, which is the subject to which I shall be referring implicitly.
The completion of Economic and Monetary Union and the introduction of a single currency mean that we need an authentic European Union economic and monetary policy.
We also want to draw special attention to the need for creating favourable conditions for a more competitive productive system but we do not agree with the means proposed by Mrs Randzio-Plath.
The European Union's employment policy, explained most extensively in the White Paper on competitiveness, productiveness and employment, has been an utter failure.
The year 2000 is nearly upon us and unemployment has not come down nor is it likely to reduce.
Obviously, we have reached a point when we have to get out of this dialogue of the deaf, Mr President.
Mr President, following what the Commissioner has said today, I really must make the point once again that we have more than 20 million people out of work in Europe, with one in five young people unemployed and unable to find work, and I have to say that the Commission's recommendation for the broad economic policy guidelines can only be described as toothless.
It offers no real prospects for working people in Europe.
If we fail to persuade the Council to make an active employment policy part of the broad guidelines for economic policy, and if we fail to create a policy mix under Article 3 so that we achieve the type of growth that generates jobs, the consequences will be a setback for Europe and a risk of conflict.
The Stability Pact was not foreseen in the Maastricht Treaty nor was it necessary in our opinion.
What was written there already wisely decided how the economic situation of countries joining the single currency would have to evolve.
What we are now demanding is that the proposals put forward and which have been translated in the Christodoulou and Randzio-Plath reports, as well as greater emphasis on employment, should be accepted.
The Stability Pact proposes sanctions and automatic fines which we regard as unacceptable.
I remind you that we have, at your request, proceeded to informal consultations before even presenting our proposal.
And I think it is more operational and effective to go in the direction recommended by the Parliament and to support the advances made by the Commission in its recommendations in order not to run the risk, as we did last year, of seeing the Council adopt a more restrictive stance than you would want.
Mr Donnelly, first of all I would like to tell you that it seems to me that the Commission has done all it could to involve the European Parliament in the preparation of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Investment in equipment will increase by 4.8 % in 1997 and 6.3 % in 1998.
I should remind you that a 6 to 7 % investment growth per annum should make it possible to sustain medium-term growth of 3 to 3.5 %, which should create jobs at a rate of 1 to 1.5 %.
And it also took them in the interinstitutional dialogue in order to make sure that the European Parliament's view was heard as much as it could.
Mr von Wogau, the golden rule for public investment, which you mentioned earlier, will be achieved in 1998.
Judging by our predictions, public deficits, if the policy is unchanged, will be 2.5 % in 1998 and public investment growth will be between 2.5 and 2.8 %.
Mr Giansily, I agree with your analysis on the stability and growth policy.
Mr Wolf, I think that the policy mix makes it possible to overcome what you call this 'stability fetichism' .
In a relaxed policy mix, there is no conflict between the objective of stability and budgetary and wage development.
Mr Blokland, on the important point that you raised, concerning what you call accounting 'somersaults' , I would like to tell you that there are a certain number of rules.
Rules are the European system of national accounts, the SEC, SEC 79 to be exact, as well as a Directive on GDP.
These instruments properly define GDP and there is nothing to add to the Stability and Growth Pact on that score.
Mr van Velzem, you referred to the very interesting problem of the regional differentiation of salaries.
The best proof is that if regional differentiation of salaries did not take place, there would be major regional unemployment.
Mr Ilaskivi, you wanted to know why the figure of 3 % was chosen.
In many of our Member States that means that the state spends 20 % more than it earns every year.
I would challenge any company, big or small, to survive if it spent 20 % more than it earned.
Mr Ilaskivi, you also refer to the problem of adjustment in the case of asymmetrical shocks.
You know that the asymmetrical shocks of the last 25 years have been greatly amplified by divergent policies.
That said, the Commission recognizes that public investment has suffered in recent years and that is why it can only deplore the fact that the Council has rejected its proposals concerning the major networks.
The Commission has been particularly concerned, during the negotiations, to make sure that nothing is added to what was already foreseen in the Treaty.
The Stability Pact, as it stands, is so inflexible that its implementation, in my view and many others who have studied it - and they are practitioners in contact with the markets - we believe that it is not very easy to implement.
Mr President, I should like to say to the Commissioner once again how much the House naturally appreciates the fact that informal dialogue has been possible with the Commission on issues including the broad economic policy guidelines.
I also think, Mr Christodoulou, that it is sufficiently supple.
I am still open to suggestion and to see in fact how it is possible to involve the European Parliament even more in work on the main guidelines of economic policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to present this report on a topic which I regard as extremely important.
I should like to say first of all how glad I am that the European Parliament is debating EU tax policy and the development of national taxation systems just two weeks or so before the Amsterdam European Council, since this allows the people's representatives to express their authoritative opinion on a topic which should receive maximum attention on that occasion and, hopefully, be the subject of innovative decisions giving fresh impetus to a policy area which has been stagnating for far too long.
The Amsterdam European Council will in fact be addressing itself to the action plan for the single market, the purpose of which is to establish the timing and mechanisms for all the measures needed to complete a real single market sufficiently in advance of the transition to monetary union, and before the launch of negotiations on further EU enlargement.
Fiscal matters are particularly important in this context, in that without better coordination and harmonization in all the areas that are crucial to the smooth functioning of the single market, not only will this market be quite incapable of operating satisfactorily, but the success of monetary union will be jeopardized at the same time.
The analysis of existing taxation systems in the EU has thus revealed that, as a result of the gradual process of completing the single market, no individual Member State is capable nowadays of abolishing all by itself the remaining fiscal barriers hampering the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, nor is it capable of combating fiscal erosion.
Indeed, the link between uncoordinated fiscal policies in the European Union and its serious unemployment situation is becoming increasingly apparent.
Once the single currency comes into being, the lack of coordinated taxation on capital income will become even more noticeable.
Therefore, in order to obtain their approval for decisions, it appears necessary to draw the attention of the Finance Ministers to the need for a more overall approach to taxation.
Within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in particular, we have explored fiscal matters on several occasions.
Several ideas contained in the Secchi report have in fact been incorporated into the draft action plan for the single market, adopted by the Commission.
The elements currently under consideration in the single market action plan are: measures to guarantee proper taxation of cross-border capital flows; measures to abolish taxation in the form of deductions at source of interest payments and royalties between associated companies; a code of conduct designed to limit damaging fiscal competition which impinges on the Member States' tax-raising powers - the points for inclusion in the code, as listed in the Secchi report, will be a valuable contribution here; and measures to eliminate competitive distortions deriving from a lack of harmonization in indirect taxation systems.
A coordinated approach is essential, and we shall carry it forward.
The draft single market action plan also refers to the need to create a common VAT system and to review the Community rules on energy taxation.
Finally, another point on which I should like to comment, since it is covered in the resolution, is Community action to combat tax evasion and fraud.
It is therefore worth stressing the need to improve cooperation between the Member States and to step up our anti-fraud activities.
Cooperation, which is already vital now, will become increasingly so with the new VAT system proposed by the Commission.
FISCALIS will certainly improve the existing VAT systems right away; however, I fear that these improvements will not make up for the shortcomings in the present system.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
Furthermore, as the Commissioner knows, once we enter stage three of EMU, the requisite not to exceed 3 % deficits vis-à-vis GDP will oblige all States and all taxation administrations to match spending and revenue.
It is obvious that, in the future, we must think that only if intervention by the Community genuinely respects the subsidiarity principle can we achieve respectability and applicability of the measures emerging from the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, everyone knows that social employment and budgetary policies are inextricably linked to taxation.
We are referring to the Directive in Article 220 on the rule for reaching a bilateral agreement on taxation matters.
Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group I should like firstly to say that we welcome the Secchi report and we congratulate the rapporteur.
The first is in paragraph 3, the reference to extending the powers of the Union in respect of fiscal harmonization, to include not only indirect but also direct fiscal harmonization for company tax, tax on capital and so.
We have a huge amount of unfinished business in that area of competence which is greatly developed but still not finished, namely the harmonization or the further approximation, to be more exact, of indirect taxation, like VAT and excise.
We have some concern about whether enough reflection has been given by Parliament - and certainly not enough in our own group - to say that we want to see majority voting in Council also for the area of direct taxation.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Secchi most warmly on a very fine report, and to thank Commissioner Monti for allowing members of the Economic Affairs Committee to participate in close consultations on taxation.
My group is opposed to the confiscation of the fiscal instrument under the cover of harmonization or coordination.
Mr President, the European Commission was right to remind us in its strategy paper that fiscal policy in the European Union needs to be reorganized.
I am very glad to see that the strategy paper deals with all the areas in which short- and medium-term solutions are required.
The taxation of capital income has already been discussed many times in the House, and we have proposed various solutions.
The destructive tax competition which we are currently experiencing in the European Union can be just as damaging, and it is therefore high time that the European Parliament got to grips with the issues in the Commission's strategy paper and, with the help of the Secchi report, defined a clear position on these topics once again.
Mr President, the Secchi report displays expertise, as does the Commission's analysis.
Finally, it is true that more has been achieved as far as indirect taxation is concerned, but it is also vital to make progress on direct taxation too - and to make it soon in respect of capital movements in particular, as several Members have pointed out.
The debate is closed.
The single market programme of more than 280 directives has cut reams of red tape. 100, 000 national standards and labelling laws, 60 million customs and tax formalities have been shredded and binned.
Indeed, only 56 % of the 1985 measures have been implemented by all Member States.
It is the Member States who have hypocritically supported the principle of the market but who have been most guilty of failing to implement, monitor and ensure compliance with single market rules.
Some 450 new national technical rules are introduced annually.
Moreover 120 million consumers - in other words, Europe's children - have a right to demand the market to work in their favour.
Finally, I am pleased that Tony Blair, Britain's new Prime Minister, has declared that his presidency of the European Union in 1998 will see the completion of the market as a first target.
Truly a new market for a new Europe and a new hope for all our people.
Madam President, in its opinion on the communication from the Commission, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also expressed its disappointment that the single market has not fulfilled all the expectations which it raised.
As we have already noted critically in other reports, the Member States are still very much dragging their feet over transposition of the directives that have been adopted since the 1985 White Paper; in many cases, our citizens and the economy are suffering from the fact that directives have not yet actually been applied.
In some areas, it is scarcely appropriate to talk of a single market at all.
In the case of pesticides, it is no secret that it is still possible for one country to impose a VAT rate of 3 % while another imposes a rate of 20 %, all perfectly in accordance with the relevant EU directive.
We are therefore calling for the completion of the single market programme, and in particular for harmonization in the areas of VAT and company taxation.
The point also has to be made that some other effects of the single market - about which the Commission has been quite frank - should actually give us pause for thought.
It is clear from the figure of no more than 300 000 to 900 000 new jobs - which is a cumulative figure for a number of years - that the single market alone cannot solve the problem of unemployment.
And the increased volume of traffic may result in the EU being unable to meet its international obligations as regards the reduction of CO2 emissions.
For these reasons, we support the Commission in taking any steps that will help it to be more effective in this area, and we would call on the Member States not to deprive themselves and their citizens of the positive effects of the single market.
In fact, Mr Harrison, we have already incorporated into the plan many of the points raised in your report.
The origin of the single market action plan, to be presented to the Amsterdam European Council in June, was the analysis contained in the communication on the impact and effectiveness of the single market, which is the subject of the report before the House today.
We all agree on the need for a new degree of political commitment to secure a single market that will meet our social requirements and achieve its full potential, which it has not yet done completely in terms of employment, growth and competitiveness.
In this major political initiative - the action plan - we are proposing that the European institutions and the Member States undertake a very serious task.
This is a crucial element if we wish to increase business confidence in the market, which requires better and prompter implementation of Community law in the Member States.
One key element of a fiscal package should be a code of conduct whereby the Member States undertake to act in a more transparent and coordinated way, in order to avoid excessive fiscal competition.
A more rigorous approach to competition policy is also crucial for ensuring that the dynamic of the single market is not hampered by anticompetitive behaviour on the part of firms, or by state aids.
Finally, there is the fourth but equally important point, which I am pleased to mention in the presence of Mr Flynn himself: the action plan will contain proposals designed to consolidate the social dimension of the single market in two major sectors: the protection of workers' rights and the development of mobility within the Union.
Full compliance with existing Community rules on the consultation of workers is absolutely vital to ensure unswerving political support for the single market.
In its action plan, the Commission calls on Parliament and the Council to examine the legislative proposals contained in it as a matter of priority, so that the best possible results can be achieved within the tight timeframe - 18 months, as I said - set out in the document.
Madam President, I should also like to congratulate Lyndon Harrison for a very comprehensive and searching report which seeks to complete the single market.
Secondly, I should like to endorse the call in the Harrison report to complete the trans-European networks.
More than that, transEuropean networks provide a proper basis for universal service for public services for all our citizens of Europe, making their lives better and building a better future.
The application of the single market has caused a revolution in the Member States of the European Union.
I would therefore urgently call on both Commissioners to give particular attention to these aspects of the single market, which directly affect citizens wishing to use services provided in one country where they are working, for example, but which have to be processed fiscally or otherwise in a second country.
This issue is dealt with in the Berger report and is also covered in Amendment No 12.
It is somehow significant that, according to the figures already divulged and analyzed on the basis of various models, the single market which began in 1993 has led to 300 to 900, 000 extra jobs and a 1.1 to 1.5 increase in the European GDP, as well as a 1.1 to 1.5 reduction in the inflation rate.
Without commenting on all the contributions, I would single out the emphasis you have placed on SMEs - which are at the very heart of our action plan, especially in terms of legislative simplification; the attention which you have all drawn to proper compliance with the rules of the single market; and also the problem of enforcement, using the appropriate instruments to ensure more swiftly and effectively that the single market rules are indeed being complied with.
The single market is the central pillar of economic union, and therefore all our joint efforts to complete the single market should be seen in this framework: one of full support for growth and employment in Europe.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, I think it could be said, without risk of error, that the harmonization of national legislation concerning the medical profession and medicines is a process which is now virtually completed in the European Union.
In fact, in the European Union, the diversity of legislative approaches is quite extraordinary.
It is precisely to embark on a process of recognizing these non-conventional therapies, obviously on the basis of existing achievements, particularly what has already been achieved in countries where those therapies have already been recognized, on the basis of vital studies which show the effectiveness of therapies to be legalized, on the basis of the requirement of high-level training for practitioners - diplomas and recognition should not be given away - and last but not least on the basis of organized dialogue between allopathic medicine and non-conventional medicine, so that this dialogue can lead to a harmony, making it possible to apply these approaches in complementarity.
On the contrary, I think that the only way of protecting serious practitioners against charlatans and protecting patients is to adopt appropriate legislation.
He continued by saying that, in order to meet the requirements of the modern world, these approaches had been given a legal framework in India and an organised structure.
The European Parliament is certainly the most appropriate place to set that process in motion.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was the task of the Committee on Legal Affairs to determine whether the European Union has the power to regulate the field of non-conventional medicine in the first instance.
It is a fact that a great many articles of the Treaty - Articles 3(o) and (s), 36, 56, 100a(3), 129 and so on - refer to health and health protection.
We felt that Articles 54, 63 and 100a in particular could be considered for the legal basis.
Nevertheless, we believe that the Community does have competence in this field, since on the one hand there is a danger that the great variety of national rules could give rise to legal uncertainty and, on the other hand, national sovereignty - or the principle of subsidiarity as we now call it - does not rule it out.
As a second point, the Committee on Legal Affairs takes the view that different directives should not be enacted for each individual type of non-conventional medicine, since the very contentious issue then arises of what is nonconventional medicine?
It can develop into conventional medicine, but it can also degenerate into magic or esotericism.
We believe that it is more important to enact a basic directive that encompasses general points and is applicable to all.
The most important principle is to ensure a very high level of patient protection.
This issue is too extensive to address in just two minutes, and since no one else will wish to make a long speech on this subject, I think that I should be allowed to overrun my speaking time.
In short, the Committee on Legal Affairs has come to the conclusion that Community competence to regulate these matters does exist, and that, in the interests of patients and people seeking to be treated, it should undertake that regulation.
We are not discussing legislation here, but an own-initiative European Parliament report, which seeks to prompt the Commission to consider the need for legislation.
My group sets great store by the freedom of adult citizens of the European Union to choose and make decisions, and I trust that colleagues in the other groups do so too.
So it is important for us to insist that the people treating these patients know what they doing - in other words, that they are properly trained.
If training courses and the granting of diplomas are regulated in this way, patients in the European Union will be protected, and will be able to decide for themselves whom they trust and who they wish to treat them.
I underwent medical training and - to the extent that my time allows - I still work in the field of conventional medicine.
On the other hand, we have to recognize the fact - and I know this from practical experience - that many people do not find what they are looking for in conventional medicine.
In some countries of the European Union there are non-medical and similar types of practitioners, and in others there are not.
Nevertheless, my group has serious problems with Mr Lannoye's report in its present form.
On the one hand, Mr Lannoye's report seeks the greatest possible freedom of choice for patients and therapists.
On the other, it seeks the greatest possible safety - and therein lies the problem.
I believe we must consider this very carefully, not least because some non-medical practitioners in Germany and other countries maintain that it could be dangerous for Europe to lay down strict criteria, since that could lead to them no longer being able to practise in their own country as before.
I believe that all these reasons should lead us not to adopt Mr Lannoye's report in its present form.
The rapporteur is quite simply asking for a Directive to recognize these so-called medicines and those who practice them.
A diploma awarded by the practitioners themselves 'as a result of a rigorous self-regulatory process within the profession itself' .
By the way, he has no scruples about attaching a false meaning to certain articles of the Treaty, in particular Article 57 (3).
Amendment No 10 calls for the assessment of these non-conventional practices.
But that amendment goes further.
Of course, in Amendment No 11, we should immediately stop pursuing these 'honourable practitioners' .
I am certain, ladies and gentlemen, that you will reject a report of this kind which would discredit us in public opinion.
We oppose Amendment No 15 tabled by the rapporteur.
The rapporteur has made a valiant effort to achieve a consensus out of a variety of cultural experience.
However, what I find less welcome is the fact that European law is now being expected to solve a conflict that is primarily being waged at national level between protecting the patient, quackery, and allowing the patient freedom of choice.
The article in question actually deals with the coordination of the conditions for practising certain medical and allied professions in the Member States.
But medicine is quite another science and I am disappointed to have to say that, in drawing up these reports on nonconventional medicines, Paul Lannoye has been ill-advised, misguided and misinformed.
All practitioners in the art of curing, including me, recognize the uselessness, even the danger, of over-relying on technological methods for reaching a proper diagnosis.
The rare mistakes or excesses committed by a few doctors cannot justify leaving the art of curing in the hands of health 'officials' whose practices sometimes are more like witchcraft than medical science.
I therefore insist that all of my colleagues who are not doctors should understand the overriding need to integrate the teaching of so-called 'soft' , ' alternative' or 'non-conventional' medicines in the main university training courses for all doctors.
The vital principle of primum non nocere cannot be reserved only to allopathic therapy but must apply to the art of curing in all forms.
Madam President, very often Members of this Parliament are called on by our citizens to set out the benefits and disadvantages of the European Union.
Very often we explain them in terms of rights and responsibilities, the freedoms and rights of the single market and the social and legal responsibilities which are fundamental to its fair achievement.
The debate about non-conventional medicines, which is undoubtedly controversial, crystallizes that wider debate.
Studies, for example, by the UK Consumers' Association show that one in four people now visit non-conventional practitioners by choice.
It may be imperfect as Members both for and against are arguing tonight but it represents a step in the right direction towards better access and choice for patients, the removal of barriers for responsible and properly regulated practitioners, recognized standards of training and qualification and the possibility of sensible integration into future conventional health systems at an appropriate later stage.
Madam President, first of all I should like to emphasize the fact that medical science is a single science and there is no such thing as 'alternative' or 'non-conventional' medicine, just as there is no such thing as 'alternative' physics, chemistry or architecture.
Madam President, in the debate on the merits of non-conventional medicine as opposed to conventional medicine, the issues of a lack of humanity and the decline of the relationship of trust between doctor and patient are repeatedly brought up.
I wish to emphasize in the strongest possible terms here that humanity, trust and personal commitment depend not on the method of treatment, but entirely on the person carrying out the treatment - in other words, the doctor or therapist.
The rush to embrace new, alternative therapies whose effectiveness is so far only partly proven is misguided.
These and other proposals are not compatible, in our view, with the scientific guarantees that European qualifications must offer nor with the safety of ordinary people, nor with the functioning of the European Parliament.
The fact is that only once an illness has been identified, in other words after diagnosis, can the appropriate treatment be determined.
Naturally, many colleagues who are in favour of the resolution voted for this amendment because, despite everything, they are still not convinced of the effectiveness and safety of therapies which have not been scientifically verified.
Given the approval of this amendment calling for a thorough precautionary study of the safety and effectiveness of all non-conventional medicines, we are now faced with an absurd and contradictory resolution, Commissioner, because all the recitals and other paragraphs of the resolution itself are geared to obliging the Commission to allow so-called alternative medicine to be practised in all the Member States.
As we know, complementary medicine is practised by thousands of people each year throughout Europe and it has been discussed at length at European level over recent years.
The level of Europe-wide qualifications must be as least as high as that already required for non-medical practitioners in Germany and Sweden.
I welcome Mr Lannoye's proposals for the Commission to draw up studies on non-conventional medicine, using them as a basis for any coordinating legislation, and for the Council and Parliament to encourage the development of research programmes in this field.
Madam President, I should like to thank Mr Lannoye for his good report and for highlighting the problems associated with alternative medicine.
In compiling reports of this kind, the Commission must rely on national data and policies to evaluate the need for action at Community level.
Furthermore, given the very limited level of budgetary provision for public health programmes, we have, as you know, had to establish priorities for Community action and the severe constraints on our resources do not allow us to undertake other new commitments for the time being.
The report also invites the Commission to harmonize the conditions for the exercise of non-conventional medicine in the different Member States.
In response to this specific request, I should first point out that the general system for recognition of diplomas, which has been in place for a number of years now, already guarantees free movement to practitioners between those Member States which recognize non-conventional medicine as a discipline distinct from conventional medicine.
As the recitals in the resolution point out, it is perfectly true that under Article 57 of the Treaty, the Commission could propose a directive which would provide for the creation in each Member State, subject to agreed rules on education and training, of one or more recognized professions in this field.
But, in accordance with the Treaty, such a directive would require the unanimous approval of the Member States.
Concerning pharmaceutical legislation for non-conventional medicines, the Community legislation in the field of medical products is based on the three requirements of quality, safety and efficacy.
With regard to the specific issue in point 5 of the motion for a resolution, concerning budget line B6-7142 of the Biomed programme, I have to inform you that it was not legally possible to carry out the research projects referred to because non-conventional medicines are not included in this specific programme's objectives.
On the other hand, in the case of budget line B6-8332, which is referred to in the preamble of the motion for a resolution, a report by a group of consultants dealing with research on homeopathy has been published in recent days.
A contract for this study will be granted shortly and it is expected that the results of the study will help the Commission in evaluating the situation and in developing possible proposals for specific legislation.
The debate is closed.
They have put a tremendous amount of work into what I consider to be a very important and vital report which deals with the social aspects of housing policy across the European Union.
As Members know, the ECSC Treaty lapses in 2002.
The Maastricht Treaty allows for us to do so and also to harness the reserves left in those budget lines and bring them back into use under a new European Union policy.
We are talking about nearly 10 % of the population of the European Union suffering because of the lack of a coordinated and proper policy towards housing.
And yet despite the huge unemployment figures from the most recent information from the Commission, the number of people going into skills-based training is reducing every year.
Finally, on the matter of rural depopulation: this is a problem that can be overcome.
It is one factor of deprivation which, along with unemployment, poverty, social isolation and inadequate education and training, blights the lives of millions of European citizens.
For example, in my own city, the largest single cause of homelessness is domestic violence, namely violence against women and children in their homes.
Madam President, there is an expression in Dutch which says that the later it is in the evening, the more beautiful people become.
So poverty and poor housing or homelessness tend to go hand in hand, and both can lead to social exclusion.
Last year at the Habitat Conference in Istanbul, the first steps were taken at international level to provide housing for all, and action now needs to be taken at local, national and global levels.
If the rapporteur is prepared to support our amendments, with this clarification, the PPE Group will vote for the report tomorrow.
The only question is who should take it, and how.
The report touches on all the social aspects of the matter, as well as addressing itself to town planning in respect of housing.
Finally, Madam President, larger houses ought to be built, so that this old Europe of ours can have many children.
For example, we have to disagree with recital B, which says that there is a general trend in the Member States towards the abandonment of their responsibilities in terms of housing policy.
Madam President, more than 18 million people without a home or poorly housed in the European Union is an intolerable situation and one that is likely to get still worse.
The implacable law of the markets applied to housing throws on to the streets millions of people - young people in particular - who are unable to find a stable job.
The right to housing is a fundamental human right.
The report mentions some interesting proposals, such as measures against urban speculation or European funding of projects presented by Member States.
But I think that an integrated European policy, as demanded by the report, is not a good solution - primarily because experience shows, alas, that most Community policies have lowered social standards because they are never based on the upper level.
I would also emphasize the fact that the Maastricht criteria and the criteria for the switch to a single currency have led to reductions in the financing of social housing construction and housing support.
Madam President, in this House it is customary to congratulate rapporteurs on their excellent work.
In this report, drawn up at the initiative of Parliament and the Committee on Social Affairs, Brian Crowley has very clearly demonstrated the central importance of housing policy as an element in social policy.
However, on a more positive note, while the Commission is unable to finance housing as such, it tries to contribute to efforts combating homelessness and the social effects of poor housing.
We fully agree with the emphasis which the resolution places on the need to adopt an integrated approach to resolve the complex web of economic, social and cultural problems that are their root cause.
The Commission will consider his proposals with due care and the material from the Member States is worth studying.
Thank you, Mr Flynn.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank all groups for the cooperation which they demonstrated in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and their very good will towards this report.
We are speaking today of a convention presented to us by the Council, establishing the European Information System, in order to replace the Schengen Information System.
Today, I am not going to enter into details of the experience of the Schengen Information System, which we approved a long time ago, but I would refer to the report by Mrs van Lancker on that subject.
The Council has presented us with a convention based on Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union.
Article K.3 refers to Article A.1 of the same Treaty and Article K.1 specifically refers to the crossing of external borders, immigration policy, the policy on nationals of third countries, judicial cooperation, both civil and criminal, customs cooperation and police cooperation for the purposes of preventing and combating terrorism, unlawful drugtrafficking and other serious forms of international crime.
The same Article K.1 of the Treaty on European Union provides that the cooperation described in Article K.1 will apply without prejudice to the powers of the European Community.
The European Parliament has already expressed itself on various occasions to state that, bearing in mind that the free movement of persons should already have been achieved since the approval of the Treaty of Rome, in other words, virtually 40 years ago, controls on persons at external frontiers ought to be regulated in the same way as controls on goods.
If we look at the content of the European Information System it is even clearer that Community legislation is called for.
There is no doubt that the EIS concerns police cooperation, but not specifically in the fields of terrorism and unlawful drug-trafficking, nor other forms of international crime.
At no point is any sound reason given for this link and, in my opinion, nor is there any reason for making such a connection because the main purpose of the EIS - as I have already said many times - is to compensate for the lack of checks at internal borders.
A regulation, on the other hand, could not be subjected to a convention established on the basis of Article 6 of the Treaty.
It is dangerous that, as long as there is no approximation in this field, this subject should be included in the system, because anyone seeking asylum and having that request rejected could end up being included in the category of undesirable foreigners.
There is other minor information that I would like to see changed in the convention, but I wanted to focus what I had to say on the change of the legal basis which we are asking for.
I think that, if that is done, it would be proof that what the Council tells us here sometimes is something more than just good words, something more than goodwill, and that there really is a political will to head towards the aim of the European Union, i.e.
Moreover, Parliament must also note the fact that the process of consulting it - which in theory should be taking place tonight - is completely worthless, that everything we say tonight is completely pointless and meaningless, since the Convention has already been forwarded to the national parliaments for ratification.
This issue concerns the establishment of an information system which could include data on every single citizen of the Union, since the Convention contains passages which provide, for example, for the operators of the future European Information System to cooperate with all national authorities which could be involved in the collection of the data for this information system, without it being defined which national authorities are meant by this, or how these national authorities are supposed to transmit the data concerned to the Customs Information System.
In future, it will only be possible for a European citizen to avoid being included in an information system by residing outside the European Union - but not in one of the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe, since they are cooperating intensively in the establishment of the European Information System.
The Polish Minister of the Interior undoubtedly knows more about the Customs Information System than Parliament's rapporteur - I can assure you of that.
If a Member of this Parliament, as an individual citizen of the vast legal area that is the European Union, happened to come into contact with such an information system and objected to the data held on him there, he could not bring a complaint before the European Court of Justice, because - surprisingly - the information system would be outside the ECJ's jurisdiction.
Following that broad description of this highly undemocratic situation, let me make the following basic comment: anyone who wishes to enlist the support of the EU's citizens for the marvellous European project for the future which could help to alleviate the difficulties in the European Union, anyone who wishes to encourage the EU's citizens to take part in this project, must make them feel that they live in a democratic legal system.
If that is the case, we shall be unable to persuade the EU's citizens that it is a good thing to take part in the Union.
And I shall tell you why: it may well be that ordinary citizens - who, tonight, if they are German, are celebrating Borussia Dortmund's victory over Juventus - are not interested in the Customs Information System and do not care if the European Parliament, the German or any other national parliament deals with it - and I am sure that that is the case.
I regret to say, therefore, that we must make clear with this report that, once again, a project which is actually a very good one is being laid open to dispute, and will remain open to dispute in the process of ratification by the national parliaments - as is currently the case with Europol - because the Council, in its infinite wisdom - which, tonight, I shall for once describe as arrogance - failed to consult Parliament in good time.
Cooperation in the customs sector raises the question of demarcation between the first and third pillars, and thus concerns a variety of competences.
Moreover, the Convention establishes no links with other Community databases - some of which have already been mentioned, such as SCENT or IRENE - the database for the fight against fraud, or the IDA proposal to facilitate the smooth functioning of the single market.
So in the most complicated way, the expenditure for this system will be included in the Community budget and borne by the Member States.
The paragraph in the motion for a resolution calling on the Commission to determine whether the system could be regulated under the EC Treaty by means of a directive or a regulation raises this problem only tentatively.
The Convention on the establishment of the European Information System is also designed to improve the effectiveness of controls - this time on the Union's external borders - especially through the dissemination of information on persons or objects being sought.
Its purpose - and this has already been pointed out - is to transpose the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, which was signed by certain Member States as long ago as 1990 outside the framework of the EC Treaty.
It is not accompanied by the jurisdictional guarantees that characterize the European Parliament's participation in the legislative process, pursuant to Article 138.B of the Treaty.
The aim of this Convention is set up the means and even the conditions prior to the free movement of persons.
The EIS Convention is an instrument of the Convention on Crossing External Frontiers of the Member States of the European Union.
Police and judicial cooperation set up by the EIS Convention between Member States with a view to rapidly disseminating information on persons being sought, under surveillance or to be arrested, with legal guarantees established by the convention, should make it possible to make progress towards the aim of the free movement of persons.
The problem will, in all likelihood, arise in respect of the reporting procedure laid down in Article A.4.
Similarly, our Commission regrets that questions concerning the Court of Justice are dealt with separately.
Finally, to conclude, I should like to say personally that I strongly regret the fact that the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs should not have thought it appropriate to consult the Legal Committee when its rapporteur considered changing the legal base.
The fight against crime within the Union is based on the dissemination of information between the national authorities.
Obviously, Parliament cannot adopt a position on a draft law which is not available in every language, which is why the Council's action could be taken as an indication of how much the democratic process in Europe is being eroded.
Mr Bardong expounded the PPE group's view on these issues from a constitutional point of view so well that I will skip that section and simply point out that it would be of value if they are ultimately included within the framework of the Union.
Obviously the Commission has no right of initiative in the field of customs cooperation under the third pillar.
Our practical experience is that the aspects of organized crime which the customs administration have to deal with cover, without any possible distinction, both first and third pillars.
To summarize, therefore, whilst the technical infrastructure used for the CIS under the regulation will also be used for the CIS under the convention, in legal terms there will be two different systems in accordance with the pillar structure of the European Union.
I would, therefore, invite Parliament to continue to support the transfer of the administrative aspects of customs cooperation which are currently under Title 6 of the Treaty from the third pillar to the Community's sphere.
I must say that the Commission shares the rapporteur's concern that the EIS Convention is deadlocked in the Council of Ministers and our disquiet is all the more marked because of the clear link between the EIS Convention and the Convention on Controls on External Frontiers.
Firstly, the European Information System (EIS) will replace the Schengen Information System (SIS).
Secondly, the Eurodac System is about the possibility of taking fingerprints in the case of asylum-seekers and has to do with the implementation of the Dublin Convention.
The Commission has pointed out on several occasions that the term 'Centre ' in both these titles could lead to misunderstanding so I emphasize that in this case Centre refers to groups and not to places.
I agree with the rapporteur that we have to be careful to avoid an overlap between different information systems in the future, for example with Europol systems.
In closing I would like to make a general comment on an institutional question which runs like a common thread through both the reports which are being debated tonight.
I have to say to her, however, that it is doubtful whether it would be possible to apply Article 235 of the Treaty in practice since, like Article K3 it requires unanimity in the Council.
The questions we have been discussing here tonight show that it would be much easier if we had a common legal framework.
Such a change in the Treaty would facilitate our work on both the EIS and the CIS and provide plain benefits for the Community and for its people.
I hope therefore that Parliament will continue to give support to the Commission's proposal in the IGC and I also hope that the results of the Intergovernmental Conference and the new Treaty will mean that our common desire for greater efficiency can become a reality.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The joint debate is closed.
And finally, technological progress which has made it possible to use aircraft more intensively, increasing capacity over the last 20 to 40 years.
The result is that, in recent years, the number of air passengers in Europe has been going up by almost ten million a year.
The latest figures from the Association of European Airlines indicate that there are now more than 150 million air passengers a year.
We have reached the absurd situation in which passengers using air transport have poorer coverage and protection than road passengers, despite the fact that statistics show that air transport has become the safest of all existing forms of travel, with an average number of deaths of approximately 700 persons a year.
The debates and exchange of opinion in the Committee on Transports and Tourism showed that there is unanimity among the various political groups in backing the Commission's initiative.
It is predictable that once this regulation is enforced higher levels of coverage will be extended to all air users, as many of these concepts have already been adopted by a number of world airlines in the inter-carrier agreements on passenger liability, voluntarily approved in Kuala Lumpur, in October 1995, covering already a total of 83 major airlines.
If, as is foreseen, the Council has to consider the content of the text that we are debating here in order to meet international standards in this field, we hope and desire that the final text will be submitted again for consultation by the European Parliament.
The original proposals which the Commission put forward have been greatly strengthened by the amendments carried in the European Parliament in the first reading, as, indeed, the common position of the Council indicates when it states that it takes on board most of these amendments, most of them supported by the Commission itself.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism and the two rapporteurs can be well pleased at a job well done.
Even in the case where the carrier did everything to avoid an accident, there is now to be a strict level of liability and in fact, there are also proposals for advance payments in the case of death.
Of course these provisions apply only to European Union airlines, but, I am pleased to say, that non-Community carriers are obliged to inform passengers of their conditions when they purchase their tickets.
But as European passengers are flying more and more outside Europe and new, and sometimes dodgy, airlines spring up, we must do everything we can in the way of striking new agreements with other parts of the world to see that this protection for air passengers is extended even wider.
It is important to recognize that the common position reflects the main objectives of the proposal.
Its main points are extremely important: to update the levels of liability for the carriers, recognizing the lower risks involved in air travel today but the higher level of damages paid to victims in transport accidents.
You know that the Council frequently makes life difficult for the Commission in its negotiations with third countries.
I am extremely grateful to those Members who have expressed satisfaction at the fact that the Commissioner is here to listen to this interesting debate tonight.
As the House will know and as Members have said, this proposal offers the legal prospect of welcome change and improvement in the protection of the interests of air transport passengers.
The Commission can therefore agree to Amendments Nos 1 and 4.
I can also inform the House that in our preliminary discussions with the Central and Eastern European countries on air transport, the Commission has already adopted this approach by requesting that their air carriers apply such levels of insurance cover when operating to, from or within the Community.
The Commission can also accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3 to replace Article 6.2 and 6.3 of the common position.
The suggested system would mean that there was no need for several different notices to be attached to the ticket, thereby dealing with the problem highlighted in recent correspondence from IATA.
I am very grateful for the continued support which has been consistently offered by this House to the Commission on this proposal.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
