Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 18 September 1998.
On 3 August, I put a priority written question to the Commission on the threat of war in Angola.
On behalf of us as Members of Parliament, Mr President, I would urge you to register a protest with the government and above all to ask the Commission for a reply to my question.
So a roll-call vote was held, the result of which is shown in the report, that is to say the exact number of honourable Members voting for, against or abstaining.
Secondly, the 1965 Protocol on the Privileges and Immunitites of the European Communities, which covers the substantive issue, i.e.
We must look this horror in the eye.
The Rules of Procedure rightly make clear that it is not up to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities to come to a view on the first question.
On the other hand, I do not see here any fumus persecutionis .
I would remark in passing that there is no country in the world where freedom of expression is absolute.
If we are to say that the fact that someone is a Member of the European Parliament exempts him from this particular law in Germany, to which everyone else in Germany will be subject, we would be doing the European Parliament no service at all.
Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group I endorse Mr Wibe's report for a number of reasons.
It is not as if Mr Le Pen has said anything new.
Mr President, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities decided by a large majority to waive Mr Le Pen's immunity, as I think we in Parliament are also about to do.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish first and foremost to point out that the majority of my colleagues in the Group of the European Radical Alliance will be voting tomorrow in favour of lifting Jean-Marie Le Pen's immunity.
No, Mr Le Pen, you have three minutes.
Ladies and gentlemen, in considering this request for the waiving of my parliamentary immunity, which the German public prosecutor's office in Munich has initiated and which the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities is asking you by a majority to grant, you should ask yourselves just one question, irrespective of all other partisan considerations: was our colleague Le Pen entitled to express an opinion on the gas chambers, and not on the Holocaust as you said?
In the case of a Member of Parliament this applies even more forcefully, and for this reason you should overwhelmingly reject this request for a waiver because immunity is there not to protect the person of the Member of Parliament but to protect freedom, his freedom to think, his freedom to have his own views.
The phrase in question does not deny anything.
A detail can be anodyne, but it can also be essential.
So I find it personally shocking and hurtful, 55 years after the war, to be summoned before a German court which falsified my words in order to make them part of its charges against me.
Mr Le Pen, I gave you three minutes.
With the agreement of your group, I gave you three minutes.
It has happened, in other similar cases, that Members have been given time by their group.
The European Parliament has twice upheld the immunity of our friend Mr Le Pen, despite the antipathy he arouses here, in anyone who is a democrat.
This is particularly disagreeable since one might have hoped, nearly 60 years after the Shoah, that no popularly elected representative could possibly question the barbarity of the acts committed at that time.
Anti-Semitism is his passion, denial of the Holocaust his joy.
This House was obliged to waive his immunity first on 11 December 1989, for his reference to 'Durafour crématoire ' - a nasty pun in French - and for a second time on 12 March 1990, for his attacks on world Jewry.
For this reason a French socialist and democrat takes comfort today in responding to the request of a German judge.
There was something particularly despicable in repeating the word 'detail' in Munich, surrounded by former Waffen-SS.
I see in this a clear sign of this European conscience which we are developing, born of the European democracy which we are working to build.
To conclude, the European Socialists will take great pleasure ... (The President cut the speaker off.) Mr President, the issue facing Parliament today is far more important than the case of Jean-Marie Le Pen, important though that case is.
Secondly, immunity has to be waived in matters of common law and upheld to protect the parliamentarian's freedom to express political views.
And what could be more political than a reply given by Jean-Marie Le Pen, a leading political figure, at a political press conference, in the presence of a politician who is a former member of this House, to a political question from a political journalist, a question on the exact meaning of things he had said ten years earlier during a radio programme in which he took part as a candidate in the French presidential election?
This denies the whole point of parliamentary immunity and even of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, whose report is 90 per cent platitudes, as usual.
So this same man, well-schooled in communication techniques, in all good faith used the very same word which he had reproached Jean-Marie Le Pen for using a few moments earlier.
I am delighted that Mr Le Pen is now in favour of freedom of speech.
It will certainly keep Mr Bruno Mégret in line, supporting his leader in a way he does not normally do.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The report has been reworked in such a way that it provides a balance between the two approaches to the drugs problem which exist in our Member States, notably the moral-legal approach and the so-called medical approach.
Our main objective has to be to keep as many young people as possible from becoming slaves to drugs.
The Netherlands has had a great deal of trouble with drugs tourism as a result of its excessively tolerant policy and other countries in turn have suffered as a result of the Dutch policy.
The positive is the clear objective stated in Recommendation 11 that the aim of anti-drug efforts is a drug-free society.
This is fully in line with point 12 of the political declaration adopted by the UN General Assembly last June, which also calls for the active promotion of a society free of drug abuse.
We would view any change in this objective as a reason for voting against the report.
The United States report suggests that legalisation there would lead to around a 100 % increase in heroin consumption and around a 50 % increase in that of cocaine.
Last June 150 countries adopted a global UN strategy to tackle the worldwide drug problem.
The political declaration they adopted requires governments to implement new strategies and programmes to reduce drug demand, and new laws to counter money laundering by 2003.
Our group will have to decide tomorrow on this report, on the basis of what amendments are passed by the House.
Mrs d'Ancona's first report was consistent with this approach, but it was too much for some in this House, who preferred to hide behind the walls of their conviction.
I am convinced that the answers to future policy on drugs will be found in all those towns and villages, not only in the Netherlands but in Europe as a whole, where people are looking for careful and controlled solutions to the problems which we all acknowledge.
There is also the fact that these interesting things tackle a marginal facet of the drugs problem but not the root of the problem, namely the reality that this huge trade accounts for 8 % of world GDP; there is the power of this international mafia which is corrupting our police forces, our magistrates, our journalists, our economies, by pouring dirty money into sectors of the economy which are healthy.
The UNGASS Special Session took place last spring, so one wonders at whom the recommendations of this report are in fact targeted.
The d'Ancona report was written in this spirit.
The UN General Assembly on Drugs held in July 1998 could have been an opportunity to address the most severe discrepancies between legislation and implementation, as well as incorporating in the Convention the recent developments on the drug scene.
Firstly, we are in favour of protection of the people of the European Union.
Secondly, we are in favour of helping the people around the world who are dependent on growing drug crops because of the economic conditions in their own countries.
Fourthly, we are in favour of getting rid of useless and wasted ideologies and, in particular, we are there to take a political stance and a visionary outlook with regard to how best we can help everybody to live within a drug-free society.
We now have the three UN drugs conventions, plus the political position taken at the New York meeting from 8 to 11 June this year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the consumption of drugs, not just in Europe but everywhere, is rising sharply.
I believe we all share the same aim: to protect young people and society as a whole as best we can against drugs and drug consumption.
Anyone who disregards this balance - as Mrs d'Ancona did in her first report in which she called for the decriminalisation of drug consumption and the free sale of cannabis products and heroin on production of a medical certificate, must accept the consequences.
Mr President, the real truth is that the report was sent back to committee because the British Labour Group - the single biggest part of the Socialist Group - was going to vote against it.
But they will all vote against it because of the hypocrisy that is prevalent in this Chamber.
We need a sensible policy on the decriminalization of cannabis, as they have in Holland, in Australia and in many parts of the world.
In any event, the fact that it states a few clear principles will attract interest in my country.
This second report is clearly a more rational, more composed and, above all, more constructive one than its predecessor.
The fight against drugs in the Member States of the Community must be an active, not a reactive, one.
No solution can be found that transports us immediately, overnight, into a drug-free society.
We have a good deal of hard work ahead of us: not just the European Parliament, but all the Member States too must commit themselves to a global strategy - as was stressed at the last UN General Assembly - a strategy which calls on us to opt above all for the prevention route and attempt to reduce the demand for drugs in our Community, providing information and education, in the knowledge that synthetic drugs are a major risk.
The European Parliament should turn its attention to this problem in the first instance.
Drugs policy is an area where the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Commission have been cooperating closely and fruitfully for several years now.
Mrs d'Ancona's report also states clearly and unequivocally that our common goal now and in the future is, and must remain, a drug-free society.
The Union has earmarked ECU 27 million over a five-year period to support preventive work in the Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, the report which I am presenting to the House today for debate and vote relates in particular to the Commission's communication of last year setting out its proposed approach.
The report outlines various proposals in this area, and I sense that the Commission is willing to carry this further.
Further, it is estimated that 5 % of all direct foreign investment into the most exposed countries disappears through corruption, without counting internal corruption.
Mr President, first let me thank Mr Bontempi for his good report and for incorporating many of our suggestions in it.
To return to what Mr Bösch said, that is why we must realise that with the European Union in its present form we have built up an organisation in which huge economic powers are amassed, in which huge financial opportunities are being created, but all within a structure that is becoming ever less transparent.
So without exaggeration one can speak of a crisis of values of the kind we like to evoke when we talk about democracy in Europe.
In the light of this increase in corruption - clearly, corruption has existed since public institutions and government bodies were first created, in other words virtually since the world began - we must all consider whether a greater use of penalties and repression is the right response.
It gives us a very useful overview of the various initiatives in this area.
In 1996 the Convention on protection of the financial interests of the Community was enlarged with the first protocol.
A further protocol adopted in 1997 criminalised laundering of the proceeds of corruption.
The same year the Council also agreed on the Convention criminalising corruption affecting official duties of national or Community officials.
The Convention will probably enter into force in 1999.
Most Member States have either already changed their laws or are committed to doing so.
A questionnaire has now been sent to Member States.
The Commission and the Council will review progress in November.
The Vade Mecum on grant management will enter into force on 1 January 1999.
A new committee on auditing is going to check the auditors' approach to fraud.
Mr Bontempi sees combating corruption inside the EU institutions as an important issue.
Within the horizontal programme for justice and home affairs, all ten candidate countries will be involved in a two-year joint project with the Council of Europe, Octopus 2, with ECU 1.5 million against corruption and organised crime.
Also, a new facility called a pre-ins or catch-up facility, which concerns ECU 100 million for 1998/1999, has been launched to help Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Slovakia.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
So as a committee we very much welcome the Commission proposals to tighten up control and monitoring of this particular policy.
When cooperation between Member States increases we must have a proper exchange of information so that prosecutions can take place in a straightforward manner by national jurisdictions with information supplied by the Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, there has been a sharp increase in deep-sea fishing capacity of late.
Regarding international conventions, we are concerned that the agreement on deep-sea species to which we ourselves signed up - both the committee and the European Union - has been ratified by only 18 countries.
In this context, satellite monitoring has an important role to play, and we are all in favour of it, but selective gear is also important.
In short, the fisheries policy is operating in a range of areas, and control and monitoring are crucial.
Mr President, I think the Commissioner recognises the fact, and in the Commission's proposals it is very clear, that along with common regulation we need common control, and that really ultimately means common penalties.
Robin Teverson and I have been working very closely together on this issue over the last months.
Regulations need to follow through not only the catching industry, as Robin Teverson stated in this report, but right through to the retailers: right through the processors and right through to the retailers.
I have to say that there are a couple of amendments in this report, supported by the Green Group, which we in the EPP Group will probably not support when it comes to the vote tomorrow.
That is not to say we are against control, it is only that we are against an extra layer of bureaucracy.
However laudable all of these proposals of the European Union are, they will come to nothing unless there are adequate national inspectors on the ground.
Mr President, all the speakers before me seem to agree on the need to improve, through this regulation, the control and monitoring of the common fisheries policy, and hence the fisheries situation in general.
Mr President, my interest in fish goes back a long time - longer than anyone in this Parliament - to 1975.
I remember when we had no common fisheries policy.
When we got it we all thought that we would have inspectors who would have the powers of national inspectors in any port, any place in the whole of our association, before it was called the European Union.
For many years some of the fishery inspectors of Spain lived in Madrid.
Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on Fisheries, conflicts with Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10 adopted in committee with the backing of the rapporteur.
Amendment No 1 says that if a system of monitoring is to be fully effective, fishing effort and results must be measurable and verifiable.
Admittedly, the problem of discards is a very real one and we are all aware of it, since the Committee on Fisheries is currently drafting an own-initiative report on the matter to be presented to the House shortly.
Mr President, Commissioner, this new proposal for a regulation represents the practical implementation of the European Commission's communication amending the regulation establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy, which we discussed here in the House in September.
Mr President, first of all may I thank Parliament and the rapporteur for this report which will be helpful to the Commission, especially in our debate with the Council scheduled for the end of this month.
Even in agriculture, the common agricultural policy has inspectors and penalties which are far from being harmonised, and the inspectors, who also come under my area of responsibility, really are far from having all the powers you would like, even if they ought to.
As regards the substance, there are no points of disagreement between us but, since you asked me to be specific, the Commission thinks that Amendments Nos 1, 5, 7, 10 and 12 - we are happy with the substance of these - are already covered in the action plan.
We are trying to give fishermen more and more of a say in all this, but without overburdening them unnecessarily.
For example, the amendments on logbook offences, exceeding the 50 kg limit on discards, are frankly unacceptable.
Let us make it possible for the sector to know what the penalties are in the various Member States so that interested parties can compare them.
It is not legally possible to give the right of access to all records because there is after all a measure of confidentiality to be observed in respect of trade secrets.
As for research, Mr Baldarelli, the problem again is that research is the province of the Member States.
We are trying more and more to get Member States to do research and I have to say that, with a few very specific exceptions, generally speaking they are not interested.
We agree with the principle of them, but we think they would be better included in other legislative instruments.
The debate is closed.
