Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 7 October 1999.
I hope that you, Madam President, will not consider inviting the President of China to this Parliament because that would indeed be a disgrace.
British Conservatives were in favour of making sure that we have free commerce in the European Union.
I would be most grateful if you could advise me whether it would be possible for the Council, before the vote on the report on Kosovo - which we have urged should take place - to at last provide its comments on Parliament' s amendments, following which we will then be able to hold the final vote.
My understanding was that it had been deferred to the sitting on 3 November but I cannot see it on the draft agenda.
Mr Chichester, I can tell you that the report has been included on the order of business for the November part-session in Strasbourg.
Ladies and gentlemen, the report and proposal for a decision that I am presenting and briefly explaining on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerns the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement on the methods used to investigate fraud.
On 6 May 1999, the European Parliament approved this interinstitutional agreement with its own vote in plenary session.
The key point, as has already been mentioned, is that we, as a Parliament, should give a clear signal that we are not just demanding or stipulating that others should be subject to investigations by an external, independent authority, but that we want to subject ourselves to this process too.
I would have liked us to be able to discuss this decision of Parliament' s together with the question of appointing the new director of OLAF.
The Regulation on OLAF of 25 May 1999 lays down specifically that the Commission can only appoint its director once Parliament and the Council have voted.
The interinstitutional agreement has been signed by the other institutions, and indeed already adopted as regards the internal provisions both by the Council and by the Commission, where it applies both to the politicians and to the staff alike.
We regret, in fact, the delay of four months now in Parliament bringing the report to a conclusion.
The centrepiece of the decision is Article 2.
The final clause of Article 2 is slightly cryptic, and questions will arise about its meaning.
This seems to us an excellent agreement.
I feel that we have simultaneously moved too fast in one respect and not fast enough in another.
This observation should bring us back to the interpretation of Recital 4 and Article 1 of the interinstitutional agreement defining the persons whose breaches of discipline may be subject to administrative inquiries by OLAF.
Madam President, the best way of combating fraud is not to appoint more inspectors but to implement, in our own Parliament too, a policy of complete openness about subsidies and administration.
It is a very simple matter to give our citizens access to the information on the Internet.
I have taken note of the consensus which seems to reign in this House on this matter, but I have the impression that there are a number of us who, in spite of everything, have doubts and some concerns regarding the wording of this agreement and this amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
On 6 May, the previous Parliament adopted a text which has since been changed.
They were approved on 6 May 1999 here in Strasbourg with a large majority.
We must have confidence in OLAF' s future work and make its work easier.
The establishment of this office was a very significant decision because combating fraud plays a central role in the way the citizens of our Member States perceive European politics.
That is why it is also necessary to prevent irregularities in this procedure.
In the area of the approximation of laws, we must always try to find the difficult balance between necessary harmonisation, on the one hand, and consideration for the legal traditions that have evolved in Member States over the years on the other.
Finally, it is also a good example of, on the one hand, systematic action by the European Union within its borders, in the internal market, but is, at the same time, a way of opening up towards international cooperation.
Thank you very much Mr Wuermeling, particularly as this was your maiden speech here in the European Parliament.
Because in a matter such as the regulation of requirements for the recognition of electronic signatures, a rapid solution is at least as important as finding the proper solution.
However, I would like to see this clarification combined with a request, a request to Member States, to be as generous as possible here and to limit the applicability of electronic signatures and the equal status accorded them only in exceptional cases.
Mr President, at this time I shall be thinking of our former colleague, Ullman, who was the rapporteur when we discussed electronic signatures last time.
We know in fact that standards in the information society have precisely this degree of significance.
The directive gives the Commission a very great deal of power in this area.
I hope that with our vote we will accelerate the procedure as much as possible in order to finally allow electronic signatures to be recognised, something which already exists in practice.
As we all know, electronic commerce is going to become ever more important to the economic and social wellbeing of the citizens of the European Union.
If it turns out that the legal framework for that means of doing business is flawed, it is then going to jeopardise the wellbeing of all Europe' s citizens.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for this report.
In electronic commerce the customer suffers too, and very often just the customer.
It is also important that surveillance take place where the action is.
With the Directive on a Community framework for electronic signatures, the European Union is taking an important step towards breaking down the barriers to electronic commerce.
The directive is the first step on the way to achieving a comprehensive legal framework for electronic commerce.
I have two more very brief observations on the directive.
It is a particular pleasure to be able to make some comments on the directive which we are discussing today and to build on what a number of colleagues have said: in that this is a crucial measure in that it is the first of a series.
The way we deal with this in this House, in the Commission, in the Union, will be very important for the development of electronic commerce in the future.
The second and important aspect of this directive is that it has been made technologically neutral.
The final - and I think crucial - point for the development of electronic commerce across the Union is that we must provide a framework that encourages smaller businesses to get involved in electronic commerce.
Again, we must look at how this directive operates in small- and medium-sized businesses and in particular, to pick up on the point of my colleague, Lord Inglewood, we must ensure that the changes in the overall legal framework do not have the potential to frustrate the entry into electronic commerce of smaller businesses.
Firstly I should like to thank the European Parliament for the very encouraging and supportive approach taken on this matter.
I must say for the first time in this Parliament that I have agreed with all the speakers.
It has been very constructive and different viewpoints have been presented here.
The directive which is on the agenda today deals with the use and legal recognition of electronic signatures.
The use of electronic signatures is an important means of ensuring authenticity in the future electronic world.
Hence, having a harmonised European legal framework in place would strengthen Europe' s position in the international context.
We also need this directive to avoid divergent approaches in Member States' law, as has been mentioned.
We have a problem with Amendment No 6 because, according to our interpretation, it goes against the Treaty because the Treaty provides that these kinds of proposals must be submitted to the Council.
With this aim in mind, I should like to suggest that Parliament reconsider Amendment No 6 in order to avoid an unnecessary conciliation procedure.
The debate is closed.
Motor vehicles and trailers The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0033/1999) by Mr Harbour, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council Directive amending Council Directive 70/221/EEC on the approximation of laws of the Member States relating to liquid fuel tanks and rear underrun protection of motor vehicles and their trailers [8697/1/1999 - C5-0031/1999 - 1998/0071 (COD)].
I would very much like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for entrusting me with this job a week after I assumed my mandate, and I see a number of colleagues are here in support.
It is an important piece of single market legislation that establishes uniform technical requirements on a key component of the motor vehicle fuel tank.
The proposal achieves four important objectives.
This is an important and forward-looking proposal because gaseous fuels are increasingly being used - and I refer for example to things like liquefied natural gas and petroleum gas - and there is also the prospect of hydrogen becoming a fuel in the future.
This is a sensible measure; yet this relatively straightforward technical measure has already taken 18 months to get to this point of second reading.
Maybe some of us hanker back to our younger days and fulfilling the role of Dennis Hopper in the film Easy Rider.
In particular, the idea is to introduce into Council Directive 70/221/EEC new provisions for plastic fuel tanks for motor vehicles.
The draft proposal links up directly with the technical requirements of Regulation No 34 of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, relating to the prevention of fire risk and in particular to the provisions for plastic fuel tanks.
To summarise, the Commission can accept all the proposed amendments.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
For this reason, we have put forward proposals and some amendments have been adopted which aim to emphasise how important the subject of road safety is today, not only in individual States, but in a Community context.
On the other hand, in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam, road safety has become a Community issue.
In our view, an advisory committee would have produced greater balance between the institutions.
Nevertheless, it is true that the decision of 28 June constitutes a wide-ranging reform of the committees' procedures and attributes substantial control to the European Parliament, particularly in the acts adopted under the codecision procedure, regardless of the type of committee.
I therefore think that today the procedure is less important to Parliament than it was in the past, but I also think that the Community institutions must adopt a comprehensive and well-thought-out approach in order to respect the interinstitutional balance.
Mr President, at its first reading, Parliament did nothing about this directive because it appeared to be a technical directive which presented no difficulties.
The original decision laid down a certain type of committee, specifically the committee mentioned in Article 3(A) which, in the meantime, was disbanded last July.
It seems inappropriate that in the case of provisions of this type, which the Council describes as technical, the Commission feels set on the idea of a management committee.
The Ferri report is a small step in the right direction.
It seems to me that this directive is too important for that.
The Commission would be prepared to approve all the proposed amendments, but Amendment No 5 on the committee procedure may prove very problematic.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, can I again thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for their assistance in producing this report.
The second point was the safety of cableway installations.
Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 clarify the position with regard to all persons utilising cableways.
Amendment No 4 is basically a tidying-up operation, as the earlier paragraph was out of date.
Amendment No 6 takes out the question of mining which is the subject of separate legislation.
Amendments Nos 7, 8, 9 and 10 simplify the safeguard clause.
Amendment No 11 again highlights safety aspects.
I commend this report to you.
Uniform Europe-wide safety standards are necessary in order to protect both the safety of passengers and also the competitiveness of the European cableways industry in the international market.
In my country alone, we have nine million passengers who take around 526 million trips with 255 cableway companies and, in economic terms, this represents a total turnover of 10.8 billion Austrian schillings.
The draft directive before the European Parliament concerns the safety of the persons carried and the free movement of cableway equipment and installations.
It goes without saying, as has been said here, that these are very important issues.
The Commission is happy to accept all the amendments.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
