Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 December 1999.
Perhaps you could shed some light on this because I have no desire to move closer to the Islamic religion or culture, nor is it likely that we can demand movement in the opposite direction.
We are not going to start a debate to explain my speech at Helsinki.
If you examine my speech carefully, you will see that I did not permit myself to bring things to a conclusion.
I said, besides, that there may also be a problem of boundaries, and that a broad debate is already in full swing within the European Parliament.
I think the presence of a Commissioner by the side of a man whose racist and xenophobic ideas are notorious is equivalent to an endorsement, and moreover an endorsement that is an infringement of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Thank you, Mr Wurtz.
Madam President, our regulations stipulate that Members of Parliament must be able to meet freely, within the European Parliament, any person resident on Union territory, and the quaestors are responsible for this, pursuant to the terms of Rule 25.
We shall indeed look into this matter in order to find a favourable solution.
Madam President, the Austrian Member of the European Commission, Franz Fischler, has been criticised here for taking part in an event with Jörg Haider.
Last Saturday, an aeroplane belonging to the SATA airline from the Portuguese autonomous region of the Azores crashed, killing the crew and 31 passengers.
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot start a debate on the subject, especially if the party concerned is not present.
Mr President, I would very much like to bring to your attention the problems we are facing in Brussels, in particular those arising between the Members' chauffeurs and the security service.
We take note of your comment and we shall ask the quaestors to look into ways of providing a favourable solution.
Madam President, a remark on the question concerning European culture.
This reads as follows: Best Wishes, De bedste ønsker, Frohes Fest, Meilleurs Vux, Migliori Auguri, Beste Wensen, Boas Festas and, in Swedish, Med bäste lyckönskningar, as it has become.
Madam President, I would just like to address you on behalf of the Members of Parliament who stay behind on Friday morning.
Madam President, I myself have two children who are Protestants and I always celebrate Christmas in the proper way.
Thank you, Mr Ceyhun.
Thank you, Mr Ripoll y Martinez de Bedoya.
This report was adopted in committee by an overwhelming majority of 47 to 1 without amendment.
It concerns a small but important modification of an existing directive which needs to be implemented before the end of this year in order to prevent many European companies from being in breach from January onwards.
This would enable the Council to go through its procedures very swiftly and make a lot of European industries happy.
We already have four items entered on the list given in the final draft agenda, which means that we can only add one of the new items proposed.
Next, the request from the PSE Group for a sub-item on the "Fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Convention" and finally the ELDR Group' s request for a sub-item on "Angola" .
Prince Victor Emmanuel has been in exile for 50 years now.
I want this Parliament to call upon the Commission to look at this issue from a European Union perspective for the first time and reinstate these families' full civil and political rights.
In any case, this is not the issue, the issue is the extremely general wording contained in the motion, i.e. "civil rights for members of former royal European houses, any former royal European houses" .
Madam President, I draw your attention to Annex III of the Rules of Procedure which lays down the guidelines and general principles to be followed when choosing the subjects to be included on the agenda for topical and urgent debates of major importance.
It has been on the agenda of many national parliaments for many years.
Madam President, I do not think that we should miss this opportunity to commemorate this anniversary, which marks a very important milestone for mankind.
I imagine that Mr Swoboda and his friends would have voted differently just now on the proposal regarding political prisoners in Djibouti if they had know that the item on Nicaragua could have been on the agenda.
But the item on the conditions of detention of political prisoners in Djibouti is still in, Mr Wurtz.
Firstly, the conference failed due to lack of time.
Considering the number of parties and subjects involved and the fundamental differences between a number of participants, the chances of arriving at an agreement were extremely slim.
If we dwell for a moment on this intrinsic reason, I believe it must be acknowledged that the WTO must no longer henceforth supervise the negotiation of liberalisation between industrialised countries and that this order has been changed in two ways: firstly, it is no longer possible to limit ourselves to lowering some tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade.
We must concern ourselves with the impact of this liberalisation on the main parameters of our development models, the fundamental rights of workers, environmental and health protection, cultural diversity, multifunctionality in agriculture and quality of the environment.
Tomorrow, we shall probably also have to take China into account.
The combination of new subjects and new participants opens up very good prospects of progressing towards controlled globalisation, but the difficulty of such an enterprise is readily apparent.
In addition to extending the negotiations to all the partners, including developing countries, the European Union also took the initiative to open up the conference by means of an offer to guarantee the least advanced countries broad zero-duty access to the markets of the industrialised countries.
But let us make no mistake and let us keep our eyes open wide.
In return for their support of our agenda in terms of society, the environment, health and workers' rights, developing countries with average revenue and emerging economies are going to be asking for substantial improvements in access to our markets.
Let me just briefly mention the European Union' s strategy in Seattle.
The Community is well positioned to build bridges between the positions of industrialised countries and developing countries.
We showed this clearly at Seattle, where we were well prepared both politically and in terms of content and we enjoyed the support, the precious support, I believe, of both the Council and of Parliament.
I take full responsibility for the risk taken at this time, given that the European Union was the only delegation which was pushing an ambitious agenda on the subject of the environment.
A delegation of representatives of the European Parliament was part of our Community delegation.
We kept in contact on an on-going basis, enabling an exchange of views and information, which proved to be extremely useful to me in my capacity as a negotiator.
This positive experience strengthens my conviction that we should continue to involve the European Parliament more closely in framing our common trade policy.
The Commission considers that initiating a new round on the basis of a broad agenda remains our priority.
The first scenario is to convene another ministerial conference quickly.
From this point of view, the subjects which were not successfully concluded in Seattle, such as agriculture, anti-dumping and fundamental social standards, should now be tackled quickly.
The second scenario is rather more gloomy.
It takes account of the hypothesis which says that the United States will not, in any event, make any moves during an election campaign.
If we do not wish to wait for 18 months before resuming negotiations, let us try as of now to move things forward step by step.
An interim package might make it possible to restore confidence in the system and to create conditions favourable to the launch of a new round as soon as possible.
Well before Seattle, we had submitted detailed proposals on the transparency of WTO activities.
As regards transparency, it is clear that decision making and negotiations must be legitimised in the clearest and most consistent manner.
One of the ways to obtain this support would be to maintain our offer to the least advanced countries and to examine together the coordination between the action of the WTO and that of other international institutions in order to ensure that trade liberalisation results in sustainable development for all developing countries, beginning with the very poorest peoples.
Firstly, regarding the content, in striving to form alliances and to retain support in favour of a broad approach to the round, and secondly, on the form, the institutional plan and the procedures, in order to set in place all we shall need throughout future negotiations.
In addition, reform of the WTO is urgent and imperative.
Secondly, in this process, European environmental and health policies, minimum social standards and development policy should retain their status.
Thirdly, at the forthcoming negotiations on agriculture, emphasis should be placed on the multifunctional reasons for our European model of agriculture - the further development of rural areas, the provision of high-quality agricultural products and the environment - with reference being made also to Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture.
In the negotiations with China, which are now beginning, we should concentrate on our own interests, which are in part also contrary to those of the United States.
It is nevertheless true that, as you yourself pointed out, no agreement was reached in Seattle, and the problems remain.
The failure can be seen in the fact that following the Uruguay Round, the volume of trade in the context of this agreement has increased but unfortunately, so has the gap between developed and developing countries.
For those who see trade as an instrument for making society more harmonious and prosperous, as we Socialists do, this situation can only be of grave concern.
Thirdly, in relation to the nature of the agreement: it is true that we all wanted an agreement, but failure to reach one is better than an agreement which will have an unsatisfactory outcome.
We feel that the market is not a solution to all problems but neither is it the source of all evil.
The WTO is an intergovernmental organisation with over 130 members, so it will remain, by definition, a somewhat cumbersome decision-making forum.
Mr President, from the outset, I would like first of all to thank the Commission and, more particularly, Commissioner Lamy for the way in which he involved the parliamentary delegation in the work.
Having the representatives of the most industrialised countries meet in a conference room, at the end of the negotiations, while the others wait in the antechamber before having to sign a text prepared in advance seems to me an unacceptable process, and I believe that many of us here would agree with me on that.
Mr President, following the Seattle failure, we still have all the same problems, but nothing is the same as it was before.
I would like to offer an outsider' s point of view.
They meant to be involved in decisions as responsible citizens, and no longer just treated as passive consumers.
This starts, in my opinion, with the current framework of the WTO, a framework which is not really universal but is truly unequal, as Mr Lannoye very clearly depicted.
We are delighted with this, but now we must use this moratorium to prepare ourselves better for future negotiations.
Firstly, as regards procedure, we want careful thought to be given, in the European Parliament and in the Council, to the democratic supervision of the Commission during such international negotiations.
The Commission has explained just now, and also last week before the European Parliament' s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, that he hoped to receive far more in return for making this concession.
This statement is not at all satisfactory to us and, in our opinion, he is just making things worse for himself, since, in our opinion, this point specifically was not at all open to negotiation.
It must be changed all the more in consideration of the fact that the Commission had obtained a broad mandate for negotiation on the agenda, including matters such as investment and services, which are normally the prerogative of Member States.
It would be a disaster for the consumers in European countries, in particular for the weakest consumers who would be frustrated in their hope to have a wide choice of products from all over the world at lower prices than those found in the national markets.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that Europe, with its age-old tradition of the market economy, free trade and economic freedom - freedom which does not need to be qualified by adjectives - must assert that the objective of integrating the markets and of free trade is a goal in itself, which we must attain for ourselves and all the other countries.
The US Administration is not going to change its position before the election.
Mr President, I think Members should realise what an excellent negotiator we had in Pascal Lamy.
The issues themselves were complex.
Over the years of our existence we have managed to put in place environmental and social rules alongside trade rules.
It is not easy but it is essential and we are well placed because we have, to a limited extent, managed that.
They refuse to admit that they subsidise their agriculture in a much less transparent way than we do.
The alternative is the United States making bilateral agreements from a position of strength with the poorer countries of the world.
Mr President, Commissioner, the EU did a good job in Seattle.
Developing countries have shown a new determination to resist such marginalisation.
The stalling of the talks in Seattle gives us an opportunity to do just that.
Mr President, Commissioner, the most important issue of the negotiations of the Millennium Round were the grass-root reactions.
Mr President, the Seattle negotiations enabled us to see a small political opening up of the European Union' s positions on agriculture as is the case with environmental concerns, food safety and the development of rural communities.
This is nevertheless very little when compared with the very negative aspects that our trade partners are trying to impose on us in the text of the Agenda.
Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, you rightly referred to many points and I am grateful to my fellow Members for saying how indebted we are to you for the way in which you led the negotiations in Seattle.
I believe that you made it clear that the European Union is in a position not only to take on a leading role in this and the forthcoming world trade round - and that we do not come here as poker players to secure our own interests - but also that we are prepared to bring the other countries, in particular the developing and least developed countries, on board with us.
We will see that this conflict of national and regional interests will be even more pronounced in the future than it has been in the past.
Here, of course, it will be important for us not to line up against each other in blocs - the European Union against the United States, the European Union/the United States against the developing countries, or perhaps also some of the developing countries against others - as we have seen in Seattle and also in other contexts.
The second phenomenon which we saw - and here too, I do not believe that we should have any illusions - was that the interest which civil society showed in the proceedings in Seattle was not only an interest in the world trade round, but also a demonstration against all those things which people do not like.
Mr President, Commissioner, in fact Seattle did not fail solely because the agenda was perhaps too ambitious or too overloaded.
We saw very clearly at the European elections this year that people will not continue to vote if it is no longer in their power to have a say in what should happen in the future.
Mr President, the official European Union delegation to Seattle defended the principle of a broad agenda.
Secondly, it makes little sense to reduce world trade to the concept of fair; the two concepts of fair and socially balanced need to go hand-in-hand.
I believe that we have laid the best foundation for successful future cooperation within the European Union, within the European Parliament.
To take European agriculture as an example, it cannot go on saying that it is doing fine, that it is multifunctional, that it is operating in a positive way, that it will henceforth protect its consumers, while at the same time maintaining a selfish attitude with regard to the countries of the south.
I believe that we should not shy away from a debate in this sector; we should not be too cowardly also to discuss the advantages of biotechnology and the life sciences in the WTO context.
We should state clearly what is of use to us and what is damaging.
We should fight against those things which are damaging, but we should also give unambiguous support to those things which are of use to us.
Mr Lamy, I am glad that you are taking on the position of leader.
I take it that he is aware that this House is also grateful for the part he played and for the way in which he involved the European Parliament delegation.
If we are now to continue the work solely on the basis of Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture, what then are our responsibilities under the agreement?
I am convinced that they are perfectly obvious: Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture contains the condition that, amongst other things, non-trade-related concerns are also to be taken into account.
We also need to make it clear that environmental standards and food safety are often hotly disputed here, that it is only with difficulty that we achieve this here in the European Union, that the legislation is controversial, and that if we have adopted it, it is because of our responsibility to the people of the European Union - to whom we are accountable as elected parliamentarians - and not for reasons of tactical protectionism.
Perhaps the failure of this first WTO Ministerial Conference is also a huge blessing in disguise because the arrogance and lack of democracy has been exposed and now we have an opportunity to change it.
A key objective for us must be for all 135 members of the WTO to have a part to play in that process of reform as well as what goes on afterwards.
I can confirm that 30 members did not have the capacity or the ability to go to Seattle.
We have an opportunity to address the concerns raised in Seattle.
That means identifying the problems and then acting.
Of course, we did have the difficulty of the 135-page draft you took with you to Seattle, upon which you have no broad agreement, so it was hardly surprising that difficulties were encountered.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank all the men and women among you who gave me their support both during the Conference and today.
Firstly, as many of you have said, this failure at Seattle was probably a source of disappointment primarily to developing countries.
I think that this is the main thing, while taking account, as I believe the Commission is doing, of the extreme difficulties in getting 135 contractual parties to agree on an institutional system which is different to that which currently exists.
But that the United States should have an environmental agenda less ambitious than our own, as is the case, is something which definitely presents us with a more difficult problem, for if neither developing countries nor the Americans agree with our agenda, we shall then have great difficulty in moving it forward.
We shall have to think about this, and, when the time comes, present our proposals on the subject to the Council and Parliament.
I think, as a number of you have said, that Europe has a stake in this debate since, as far as it is concerned and in this area, it is accustomed to it: why not share the benefit of our experience? (Loud applause) Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
The debate is closed.
The discharge of the 1998 accounts is undertaken in a context very different to previous years.
The special reports and opinions adopted by the Court during the year in the Court's 1998 Annual Report submitted to Parliament provide additional evidence to corroborate this analysis.
As you have seen, the report that you now have in your hands contains the statement of assurance for the 1998 financial year.
In response to the requests of this Parliament, the Court has expanded its work with the statement of assurance.
The Court found a significant number of errors when checking the final beneficiaries of subsidies.
This demonstrates that, not only the Commission, but also the Member States still have problems in the administration and control of the Community programmes.
The Commission and the Member States are now embarked on a reform of the major areas of expenditure, notably agriculture, structural funds and the PHARE programme.
Faute de mieux, the prime indicator of financial performance commonly used is the extent to which the appropriations allocated in the budget have been utilised and not whether they are efficiently and effectively spent.
I underline that this is about the Community as a whole.
The 1998 annual report again reveals weaknesses in the three layers of the Community's financial control: at the Commission; in the Member State systems; and in the Commission's supervision of Member States' systems.
The Commission's internal control did not prevent the cases of mismanagement and irregularities that have recently been uncovered.
The Court's audit of the 1998 accounts has found cases where the internal control failures have led to ineligible costs being financed by the Commission, overcharging, backdating contracts or an absence of supporting documentation.
According to the Treaty, in those areas where management is shared with the Member States, the Commission has the responsibility to supervise and ensure that national control systems are adequate.
The Court's audit in 1998 reveals shortcomings in supervisory activity.
The Commission also needs to step up its supervision of bodies implementing Community funds on its behalf, such as the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund.
As noted in the Court's Special Report No 3/99 on the management and control of interest-rate subsidies, on occasions the Commission had little knowledge of the projects or of the final beneficiaries.
As Parliament knows, the Court has already pointed out in Opinion No 4/97, on one of the Commission's proposed revisions of the financial regulation, that the role of the various officials responsible for control should be redefined.
In particular, the authorising officer must be responsible for checking the regularity, the quality and effectiveness of the measures undertaken.
As I have already said, when presenting the annual report to the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Commission should increase its effort to simplify its financial and accounting regulations and procedures.
The Commission's staffing is a general problem that the Court has frequently highlighted.
The 1998 annual report again draws attention to shortcomings in this matter.
The Commission, like any other efficient organisation, needs a flexible staffing policy which will allow it to recruit, allocate and redeploy its staff better, taking account of the numbers and skills of staff needed for specific activities.
As regards the protection of the financial interests of the Community, this year has been marked by the establishment of the European Fraud Investigation Office, OLAF, in which the Court's opinion and reports have played a certain role.
However, only one Member State has fully ratified the conventions and the related protocols signed in 1995 and 1997 on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests and on fighting corruption.
Implementing all these measures will take time.
The other European Community institutions and the Member States are consequently called upon to collaborate.
We Members of the European Parliament have now been able to take an initial look at the report, which is almost 500 pages long, after having been alarmed by premature press reports.
The issue of the Court of Auditors providing Parliament with information in good time is one which the two institutions need to resolve as a matter of urgency.
President Karlsson, I am sure that you agree with this request and that for your part you will see to it that Parliament - in its capacity as the people's representative and as the control authority - is given information first, before the results of the Court's audit reach the press.
The audit report on the table will not only provide us with a basis for our forthcoming work on the 1998 discharge; it will also serve as an important document for reforming the administrative structures in the Commission and will be used constructively to bring about the necessary improvements.
In the agricultural sector, the situation remains disturbing.
We lost the opportunity of an important public platform.
It is clear that in efforts to reform itself, the Commission needs to concentrate not on where the money is spent but the extent to which policy goals are met, and that with a minimum cost.
In my own country of Wales we receive significant money from the structural funds, but the line between creating a job and safeguarding a job is unclear and therefore it is difficult for us to assess how effective those structural funds have been.
The Commission needs to make fundamental improvements to its own internal control mechanisms.
We expect to see rigorous new management and control systems in the forthcoming reform.
In particular, we need to see a reform of the Financial Regulation.
But let us not forget that over 85% of the money that comes from the EU budget is spent within the Member States and they need to put their own house in order.
The Annual Report is extremely critical and the statement of assurance has again been denied.
This represents a real opportunity to improve Europe' s financial management.
As President Karlsson has already said: all institutions must play their part in these improvements, and this should be done in the following way.
The Court of Auditors itself could make its Annual Report more useful still by making two additions.
Mr President, Mr Karlsson, Members of the Court of Auditors.
Mr Karlsson, you have been able to take the floor here today.
I regret that this important document could not be submitted during the previous part-session here in Strasbourg.
Together with the two reports by the Committee of Wise Men and the OLAF report on 1998, all these documents in fact constitute the information on which we must base our decision as to whether or not we should grant discharge for the 1998 financial year.
In short, we can see that we could do a lot of good things for SEK 40 billion.
The new Commission has said it wants to tighten up the system, but then it has also been saying as much every year.
I hope that light will be shed both on European accounts and on this Chamber.
Puns apart, I would like to congratulate you on your report, which is always significant for the European Union.
The wish I would express is that next year, which is a key year, since 1999 was the year when a number of Structural Fund programmes were concluded, your action should be more concerned with the Member States, in order to get the idea across to the public that the administration of Community funds is an important issue about which we feel very strongly, and one which is of concern also - I shall not say primarily, but also to our national administrations, our Member States.
Next year, then, an even greater effort could be made on this chapter, in my opinion, in closer cooperation with the national audit authorities.
To a large extent, the problem lies with the Member States, but the Commission should not hide behind this fact.
The Court of Auditors is right to put its finger on this serious problem.
These leaks, Mr Karlsson, do not occur in the great majority of the Courts of Auditors in the Member States or in the European regions.
Therefore, Mr Karlsson, if these leaks occur again, my group will demand a reform that goes beyond merely postponing this debate.
Finally, I would like to stress the fact that the Commission still intends - as the report that you have presented to us states - to use the degree of use of the financial credits allocated in the annual budget as the main gauge of the success of their financial management.
Firstly, how did the new European Commission react to this Court of Auditors' report?
If we are to keep the people's trust and win their support for the ambitious plans outlined at Helsinki this weekend, three steps are essential.
Cooperation between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts must be strengthened, if necessary by means of legislation.
One wonders how it is going to be possible to keep the whole of the European Union in order if a small office of 20 people cannot be kept in check.
I should like to say that how this small office and the way in which it has carried out its duties and managed its finances is to be dealt with will be a test of the European Union' s credibility in this context, that is to say of its openness and accountability.
They administer approximately 80% of the budget and they do not do it particularly well.
There does exist the opportunity to dismiss incompetent employees on the basis of Article 52 of the staff regulations.
In this way, we shall never see a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors.
President Karlsson emphasised in his speech that wide-ranging reforms are necessary in order to achieve better financial management.
Some have commented that Parliament must be the first to receive the material the Court produces, be it our annual report or the special reports we produce throughout the year.
Many speakers have pointed out the responsibility of Member States.
The Commission must, at the same time, dare to impose clear demands and requirements on the Member States' control systems.
I would underline what Mrs van der Laan pointed out concerning fraud in the Union, and would point out that, judging from press reports about fraud in general and attacks on public budgets, you would think the European budget was more vulnerable than any.
This is a clear example of Parliament and the Court of Auditors working to draw this to the attention of the Member States.
Mr Schori asked me about my conclusions, or the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, concerning events in the Stockholm representation of the Commission.
Thank you very much, Mr Karlsson, President of the Court of Auditors.
Many of them think in much more global terms and often have considerably more personal experience of being abroad than we had when we were young.
But, of course, there are many others who lack this personal experience, who - like their parents - are frightened of this large Europe because they do not understand it, and who have never had the opportunity to spend time with people from other countries.
That is how the first comprehensive European programme for cooperation in all spheres of education came about in 1995; it was called Socrates.
Since then, I have been the rapporteur and am glad that this programme has been really extremely successful.
Now we are launching the Socrates II programme for 2000 to 2007.
Adult education became part of the Socrates I programme in 1995 by a circuitous route, through an amendment which I tabled.
In the course of the year, this led to people throughout Europe developing a desire for adult education and lifelong learning and we believe that the response to this in the shape of the Gruntvig part of Socrates is the right response.
It is precisely this incorporation of Gruntvig in the Socrates programme which actually shows how Europe works.
This was an idea which had always had a foothold in the northern countries - in Austria, in the Scandinavian countries, in Germany; in England too the concept of adult education has always existed - but in the southern countries it had not taken root to such an extent.
I hope that this programme is just as successful as Socrates I.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Parliament and the Commission for having brought the conciliation to a successful conclusion.
Therefore, I would like to congratulate the two main protagonists though because they have furthermore ensured that everything will function normally in January and the budgets are ready for the start of the meetings.
If the Council had been more generous, many institutions and individuals would have put money on the table.
Mr President, I think that we have already heard much about the opportunities and possibilities which the Socrates programme will offer us over the next seven years.
I should like to call on all those who have the opportunity to take advantage of the Socrates programme, who are able to use educational opportunities, who are going to be able to continue their education in the future, who contribute to Europe growing together, also to recognise in the course of their education that we are setting a fast pace at the moment in our process of development and in all our programmes, that there are those who cannot match this pace, and that we should take them by the hand and take them with us because quality, standards and education also require us not to sideline those who are weaker than ourselves.
Mr President, this is important now but this will certainly be important in the future too, with a view to enlargement.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like firstly to thank all those who have fought so hard.
With your permission, I will draw your attention to one module which caters for cultural diversity: Action 4 or "Lingua".
I would also like to thank the whole of the European Parliament delegation which, with a lot of patience and determination, secured an increase in the financial provision of at least EUR 300 million.
This is a valuable resource for our young people, who have great confidence in the educational and training potential of this programme.
In all, 500 000 students have spent time studying in another Member State as part of their course. 110 000 young people have taken part in exchanges.
Overall, 1 500 universities and over 10 000 schools throughout the European Union have participated in this programme over the last four years.
The younger generation should have the opportunity not only to continue being involved in Europe but to become more involved.
Above all though, young people in the applicant countries should have the opportunity to take part in the new programme on an equal footing from the very beginning.
I think that the Council can be sure that over the next few years the Commission and Parliament will continue to fight for young people in this way so as to obtain sufficient funds.
We all agree that Socrates I has provided us with a vital building block in the lives of young Europeans.
In the next few years we have a vital role to play in examining the financial framework and the framework with a view to the enlargement, because that is when we will see the strains on Socrates II and its ability to deal with a new enlarged European Union.
Mr President, Socrates II has now arrived, even though it cost a certain amount of effort.
I nevertheless welcome the increase on the common position of EUR 300 million.
If we want the next generation to be enthusiastic European as well as national citizens we must be prepared to put our money where our mouth is and invest in high-quality education.
Mr President, in the end we can thank three people for completing the Socrates programme.
It is excellent that we can now adopt this programme, which is so important for the citizens of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, and the Members of the Conciliation Committee on their success in the conciliation with the Council.
We have managed to secure an additional EUR 300 million for Socrates.
A further achievement is a review clause which means that in 2004 at the latest, the financial implications of the future accession of applicant countries will be reassessed, and that the Commission will have to submit a report.
For us, the European Parliament, the creation of a European consciousness - a European identity - and respect for the diversity of cultures, languages, ideas and religions in a unified area are inextricably linked to a proactive educational policy in Europe.
One weakness is the low level of funding provided by the European Union, which means that the Member States have to make a significant contribution from national funds if they are to take part.
Applicant countries may take part but often they lack the resources to do so.
We will make every effort to ensure that more and more young people are able to participate in the Socrates programme, because this programme is an investment in the future.
Mr President, I should like to illustrate the past success of Socrates through soup.
This was not my idea but the idea of Whitfield Primary School in Dundee, Scotland.
Through this project, which was directly related to the Scottish curriculum, they organised a parents' soup day and, with their other partners, produced a book with 25 soup recipes.
The agreement between Parliament and the Council was reached following a difficult, and indeed, even arduous, conciliation procedure, but, problems aside, it can be said that a successful outcome was reached and that is what counts.
We have come a very long way since the Commission presented its initial proposal in May 1998.
She was actually the rapporteur in 1994 on the first Socrates programme, and also on the budget review in 1997.
These two programmes will be resourced by a total of EUR 3,000 million for the period 2000 to 2006.
A person with little training is not able to integrate himself into society, whatever his hidden or visible skills, and I think this is a loss not only for the labour market but also to society in general.
Well, I was impressed.
All this is achieved because there are intelligent men and women who have quite simply understood that we shall not build the Europe of tomorrow without the contribution of young people who have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with other cultures and other educational systems.
As I said in Turin, a city which is built on two rivers crossed by many bridges, I see myself as a builder of bridges.
What we are involved in here is a truly European endeavour, perhaps the finest and greatest in terms of the success it may achieve.
The recommendations are reminiscent of the rules which are applied within the organisation governing fisheries in the north-west Atlantic, NAFO.
The Commission has tabled a proposal for converting NEAFC' s recommendations into Community legislation which, in a simplified and coherent way, incorporates all the acquired experience from NAFO and is in keeping with Parliament' s previous position.
The proposal has two aspects to it which ought to be emphasised.
I would again draw a parallel with NAFO, where inspection and control are funded from the Community budget.
I should like to see increased Community involvement in inspection and control in order to ensure that the rules are applied even-handedly.
Provided that the appropriate increased financial resources are made available, there is no reason why the Community cannot play a much more active role.
The recommendations came into force on 1 July 1999.
First of all the Fisheries Committee was presented with a fait accompli by the Commission in respect of this proposal.
These regulations actually came into force on 1 July this year, although the Commission tabled the proposals before this Parliament on 12 July.
I recall Commissioner Fischler stating during his hearing before the Fisheries Committee on 30 August that he wished to cooperate closely with Parliament and the standing committees of Parliament in a working partnership.
We are the democratically elected representatives of the people of the European Community and we are not here simply to act as a rubber stamp for regulations that have already been implemented by the Commission in advance of consultation.
Only last week, in the context of the report by Carmen Fraga Estévez on the common organisation of the market in fisheries and aquaculture products, this House voted to allocate subsidies to the aquaculture industry for the first time, once again eating into the limited fisheries budget.
That is why this report by Mr Busk is so important.
This is precisely what Commissioner Fischler has in mind; he is calling in general for an improved marketing strategy in the fisheries sector.
But, of course, if the Commission, representing all of us in ensuring that this agreement is put into good effect, does not have any resources to do it with, then we are back to the original situation as far as the Member States are concerned.
If we do not agree, having adopted common policies, to give ourselves the resources to ensure that these policies are put into effect, then we are really stretching ourselves too far and we are only bringing the Community and its laws and regulations into disrepute.
May I thank the rapporteur, Mr Niels Busk, and congratulate him on the excellent report he has presented on the Commission proposal with a view to integrating the NEAFC scheme of control into Community legislation.
It is a model which concords broadly with the viewpoints defended by the Community in the context of this agreement.
The measures on the conservation of fish stocks and the monitoring of fishing activities must be dealt with in agreements signed in the framework of regional fishing organisations, and these organisations must serve as a platform for international cooperation.
The Community has contributed actively to the preparation of the NEAFC scheme of control.
The Community must strive to ensure the success of this scheme of control, which will then serve as a model for other regional organisations, and the support which Parliament has given this proposal shows that, in this field as in others, as you know, Mr President, we share the same point of view.
The matter of financing and the distribution of financial burdens must be the subject of a debate in the wider context of the regional fishing organisations.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I have the honour of presenting this report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which appointed me institutional rapporteur.
This report on the verification of credentials has its roots and legal basis in Article 11 of the Act concerning the election of the representatives of the European Parliament annexed to the Council decision of 20 September 1976.
In accordance with this legal basis it falls to the European Parliament to verify the credentials of its Members until the uniform electoral procedure comes into force.
Accordingly, pending adoption of the report on the verification of credentials, - I hope with an overwhelming majority tomorrow in the plenary sitting - all of us, all Members elected in the fifth legislature, have been able to exercise our rights in full and with no restrictions.
The Rules of Procedure also lay down that, should an elected Member resign from Parliament before this report has been adopted in plenary, the vacancy and the name of the new Member shall be verified, pursuant to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure in conjunction with the relevant provisions of the Act of 20 September 1976, in a separate procedure independent of this report and which will take place at a convenient time.
Therefore, this report relates only to the acquisition of a mandate as a result of the fifth direct elections to the European Parliament.
The competent national authorities of fourteen Member States sent their official notifications on 20 July 1999.
I have to say that making these declarations is the sole responsibility of the Member, who must make them to the best of his or her knowledge.
Therefore, Mr President, this is the background to the report on which we will vote tomorrow in plenary sitting in Parliament and for which, as rapporteur, I have presented two amendments which are justified by my explanation about the elections in Luxembourg and by what I have said.
Because this report forces us to confront an issue which the European Parliament debated in the last Parliament and brought to a proper conclusion.
This would make the work easier and would be a substantial contribution to greater democracy and transparency in the European Union.
The debate is closed.
We can, however, also be grateful to the Council for accepting the essential points contained in the proposal.
The vast majority of the amendments concern drafting points and the legal text itself.
Admittedly, there remains a problem of substance, where we in the European Parliament hold a different opinion from that of the Commission and the Council.
I wish to emphasise once more that this is not a proposal which has been dreamt up in a bureaucratic ivory tower.
This proposal is the result of countless discussions with all of those involved.
It is important firstly because - as the rapporteur said - it is one of these completely successful cases of taking advantage of the opportunities made possible by the former Article 138B of the Treaty of Maastricht, in other words, this Parliament is launching an initiative that will be taken up by the Commission and followed up by the Council.
The rapporteur said that this is also an example of good cooperation between the three institutions.
This is also an important directive, however, because now, when we are so concerned about the indifference of European citizens - who do not turn out to vote, who feel that Europe is very distant from them and who do not know whether Brussels is anything more than a place which produces what they perceive to be obligations - this is a good example of what our citizens really feel and understand to be the case.
This Parliament has shown itself to be clearly opposed to moving from the idea of a binding law to the idea of a voluntary pact between people who are insured with a voluntary subscription on their part.
If these clarifications need to be made, we will make them.
We are not prepared to replace this philosophy of binding law with another one that is completely uncertain and not very favourable to the European citizen, to a voluntary subscription scheme.
I would like to start also by congratulating the rapporteur on this report.
The mere identification of the third parties is often lengthy and time-consuming.
This directive would be a welcome step in ensuring that the respective foreign insurers get in contact quickly and the proposals for settlement are promptly forthcoming.
But our rapporteur wants to go one small step further and I feel, as others have already said, that we should support him.
We have here a good example of a Europe which is close to the people.
I should like to say quite clearly that the changes resulting from the transposition of this directive will ultimately benefit all the people of Europe and will also be experienced by them firsthand; they will not - as is often the case with other legislation - perhaps constitute an indirect benefit or not be entirely transparent.
I think that this also needs to be mentioned explicitly here.
Sometimes it is simply incorrect information - this also became clear in the last debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as far as the attitude of the insurance industry is concerned.
I would simply ask the Commission and the Council to make an effort in this matter and go along with Parliament's position.
Mr President, this directive is the first case where the European Commission is responding with an initiative to a request made by the European Parliament under the indirect power of legislative initiative conferred on it by the Treaty of Maastricht.
This is the first occasion on which Parliament has used its new competences pursuant to Article 192 of the Treaty.
The Commission is of the opinion that the common position established by the Council is well-balanced and coherent.
But perhaps the MEPs and the rapporteur, in particular, could take my last point into consideration and we could then see to what degree the scope of this directive could be extended to include the six countries mentioned by myself.
After all, Mr President, each compromise must clearly identify the third countries to which the directive can actually be extended.
Amendment No 3 is said to omit references necessary to rule out conflicts with national rules of law.
Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6, 14, 15 and 16 are said to leave out certain considerations and provisions which aim to guarantee legal security, transparency and financial security of the imported redress mechanism.
I therefore have to inform Parliament that the Commission is of the opinion that the proposed Amendments Nos 3 to 7 and 14 to 19 are a step backwards from the point of view of an effective legal instrument of the European Union.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your detailed answer.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, two years after the negative result of the referendum in Switzerland on its integration into the European Economic Area, the Council authorised the Commission to negotiate bilateral agreements with that country in the necessary fields.
In accordance with this agreement, a maximum number of lorries from the Community weighing over 28 tonnes will be authorised to transit Switzerland until 2005, when this country, in aligning itself with Community law, will not require permits for lorries of up to 40 tonnes.
Thus, as soon as this regulation comes into force, the current situation, which does not allow lorries of more than 28 tonnes to travel through Swiss territory, will end.
This number will rise to 300 000 per year in 2001 and 2002 and to 400 000 per year in 2003 and 2004.
The current regulation - which I think is totally correct - proposes a system for the allocation of these permits between the Fifteen Member States.
I must express my reservations about two negative circumstances.
Firstly, the present proposal is being debated and voted on in this House before we know the overall Agreement with Switzerland so we are being asked to approve one part without knowing the whole thing.
I declare my complete agreement with the basic issue, that is, with the proposed method of calculation for allocating the number of permits to the different Member States and that, given the circumstances, it is the most objective, rigorous and fair method possible.
Mr President, a few amendments put forward by the two Parliamentary Committees that have been debating the draft improve on some details and contribute to the overall fairness of the regulation and to the ease of managing it.
I must point out that this number is very low, equivalent to two trips per day for each country, and that the total of all these permits to be allocated automatically over five years does not even represent 7% of the total.
I congratulate the Commission on it and ask the honourable Members to approve this draft regulation.
The quotas belong to the European Union and they must also be returned to it.
Only the European Union has the right to reallocate them.
I should also like to state quite clearly that overall the rapporteur has certainly produced a very good piece of work, and I should like to thank him for this.
Firstly, Mr Ferber, I should like to say quite clearly that this is about transport policy.
As Mr Sánchez has already said, the transitional rules are a difficult phase in the process, in the course of which we have also tried to keep the Swiss on board.
It is a good result, and you also mentioned yourself that this is not about making sure that some countries obtain assets, because if the countries cannot use these assets - as you put it - they go back to the European Commission - to Europe - and then have to be reallocated.
This is of course not just traffic which originates in Austria or Germany; it is also traffic which has come, for example, from Greece and other parts of Europe.
Over the course of many years they have removed many obstacles on the routes between them.
We hope that the package of agreements between the European Union and Switzerland will perhaps also lead to Switzerland's becoming a member of the European Union.
However, above all we look forward to the proposed regulation making a significant contribution - in the short or long term - to a new, better, more efficient, but also humane and environmentally friendly transport policy in the Union.
The geography of Europe is not such that each Member State has the same need to pass through Switzerland on the way from A to B.
In his report the rapporteur, Mr Aparicio Sánchez, addressed the Commission' s proposal for a regulation which has been largely based on statistical evidence and concessions.
Furthermore, it seems likely that the EU-Switzerland Agreement will not enter into force before 2001 or even later because of the procedures involved in the relevant areas, in which case the transitional period will be shortened significantly.
The return for reallocation of any unused permits by 15 September instead of 15 November as the Commission had proposed, will ultimately reduce the possibility of unfairness in the final distribution, which must be based solely on real needs and will help companies plan their operations better.
The proposal, which others too have considered, involves a basic quota which is the same for all countries.
So this proposal encompasses a regulation and a number of licences, the so-called permits for heavy goods vehicles, and will for the first time offer the opportunity to carry out a prescribed number of journeys on Swiss territory using EU lorries of the maximum permissible weight of 40 tonnes.
It gives me pleasure to be able to inform you that the Commission, which holds in high esteem the good work which both parliamentary committees delivered in this field, prepared as they are to compromise, can accept Amendments Nos 1 to 6 and Amendment No 8.
Mr President, Commission proposal intends to allocate 90% of the licences to the Member States which account for the lion' s share in Swiss traffic and at the same time, guarantee all Member States a basic quota of 1500 licences annually.
The amendment reduces this minimum quota to 500.
Consequently, the Commission would prefer it if all Member States were allocated the same minimum quota and, as such, cannot accept Amendment No 7.
The debate is closed.
Substances that deplete the ozone layer The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0077/1999), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on substances that deplete the ozone layer (5748/3/1999 - C5-0034/1999 - 1998/0228) (Rapporteur: Mrs Hulthén).
The depletion of the ozone layer is becoming more and more obvious.
The Commission' s first document describes the depletion over Scandinavia, Greenland and Siberia as being a record.
It is also a very poisonous substance which affects those who work with it and which does not only exterminate unwanted noxious insects but also all organisms in the earth.
I would therefore emphasise the importance of Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4 and 10 which reduce the opportunity for continued use of methyl bromide, except in certain extreme circumstances.
In this context, I would therefore put in a word for the small and medium-sized companies which have done their utmost to comply with the intentions of the regulation but which have nonetheless still not achieved their objective.
These are Amendments Nos 30, 31, 32 and 34, which are scarcely in keeping with the regulation.
Mrs Hulthén, you know how strongly I have urged you to withdraw amendments so as to allow the common position to take effect quickly.
I also said to you that amendments would be tabled which did not seek - as your amendments do - to move forward even more rapidly and quickly, but even to find a way back.
But we have to learn that there are other countries which have not come as far as the Nordic countries, Austria and Germany and that we also have to give them an opportunity to move forward together with us on this.
The European Union has always taken the lead on phasing out the production and use of ozone-depleting substances, and in terms of environment policy Parliament has been the European Union's conscience.
Halons are very dangerous.
I can only hope that none of the amendments put forward receives the 314 votes.
I am surprised at what she says as we went further than the common position a week ago in Beijing.
The Commission's original proposal is along the right lines.
Mr President, as late as about a week ago, an alarming new report came out about the depletion of the ozone layer.
By means of the proposals submitted in this report, more powerful measures can be taken against ozone-destroying substances such as methyl bromide and chloroflourocarbons.
It must be possible to stop using methyl bromide as from 2001.
Mr President, I think that in this final debate, before voting on this regulation, the following points must be stressed: My country, Spain, fully enters into the spirit of the Montreal Protocol and is committed to fulfilling its terms in a completely responsible and active way.
This substance, which is used as an agricultural disinfectant mainly in clearly defined farming zones in the Mediterranean regions is already strictly limited in my country in terms of its marketing and use and has already been replaced in all cases for which suitable alternatives have been found.
Therefore, the Spanish delegation of the European People' s Party feels that it is necessary to uphold in the plenary sitting the amendments relating to the first paragraph of Article 3(2) and the last paragraph of Article 21 in which the exceptions and conditions for the use of methyl bromide after 2006 are specified.
We think that Parliament must set standards that all Member States should be able to fulfil without experiencing serious damage to their economic, social and environmental conditions.
An exemption of this kind is granted for CFC-11 to the firm Du Pont in Luxembourg for the manufacture of polyolefin fibres.
Du Pont itself has developed an alternative to CFC-11.
If we in the European Parliament do not vote for this then the people of Luxembourg will have the feeling that Europe is a step backwards rather than forwards.
But this frustration becomes deeper still, more bitter when, in the light of new scientific evidence, such as in the case of ozone-depleting substances, bureaucracy and emotion take priority over politics and science, and do not render admissible amendments that are new and sound from a scientific point of view.
These substances exhibit a very low potential for depleting the ozone - 1200 times less than halons - and they are much better tolerated by the environment than substances such as HFCs and PFCs, which are unfortunately permitted by Parliament despite the fact that they are more detrimental to the environment because they have a high potential for global warming and linger in they atmosphere, for as long as six to seven thousand years.
These conclusions are shared by high-level scientific bodies at international level, such as the Cairo Conference of 1998, the contracting parties of the Montreal Protocol, the Panel on Ozone Depletion of 1999 and the Ministry for the Environment of Great Britain.
I should like to thank the Committee on the Environment and especially the rapporteur, Mrs Hulthén, for its careful consideration of the common position.
Amendment No 27 would introduce an expedited procedure for adding new ozone depleting substances to the regulation, which would be useful in deferring unwise investments while benefiting the ozone layer.
The Commission can therefore accept this amendment in principle.
Other amendments that the Commission accepts, either totally, in principle or in part, are Amendments Nos 1, 4, 11, 12, 15, 17, 24, 25, 26, 29, 31, 32 and 35.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 and 10 as they would bring forward the first cuts in production and use of methylbromide to unrealistically early dates - 1 January 2000 and 1 January 2001 respectively.
Similarly, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 3 which would remove any exemptions beyond 2006.
Two weeks ago, in the Beijing meeting of the parties to the Montreal Protocol, the Community succeeded in introducing such measures into the Protocol.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 18 and 34 on the possible use of HCFCs as a replacement to halons in fire fighting.
Such changes would affect a crucial part of the common position compromise.
Amendment No 28 relates to Article 5 and bans the use of CFCs and HCFCs as a processing agent immediately in a specific application.
The Commission cannot accept this amendment because there is a need to provide for transitional time for phase-out.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 30 which seeks to expand the possibilities to grant exemptions for substances that have already been phased out.
The debate is closed.
What we are doing this evening is commenting on a draft Commission regulation.
There is no chance for the European Parliament to propose amendments to it through our normal procedures.
I really would ask the Commissioner when he replies to the debate to take this opportunity to clarify as publicly as possible why the European Commission has chosen the 1% level.
If the 1% level is found to be perfectly technically feasible, there are many in the Community who want to make sure that it is possible to review that level downwards, and we would like to have the Commission's view on that.
Finally, we turn to the question of enforcement and paragraph 6 of the resolution.
If that is the case, we are looking at very small quantities indeed, and there are a number of members of the committee who feel that essentially this proposal that we are looking at tonight is unenforceable and represents another occasion where the European Commission has produced something which looks good but which will not actually work out in practice.
The consumer has a right to know.
Mr President, it is Parliament' s intention to give consumers reassurance and also to provide a firm and clear legal framework for companies which work with GMOs.
The Commission' s regulation is not clear on either front.
You are using the word contamination, whilst, in my opinion, what you mean to say is "presence" .
So if, for example, a lorry has loaded 20 tonnes of corn, then 200 kg of this may be genetically modified corn.
The Commission should take measures as a matter of urgency, clarify its proposals and shed more light on the whole matter.
Mr President, Commissioner Liikanen, the questions have actually been asked, and there are a great many questions about this regulation.
Incidentally - but you know this already - we also think that the 1% is far too high.
Next, it is impossible to guarantee that GMOs will not, in the long term, have any impact on public health and on the environment, especially given that mass production causes them to be dispersed throughout the countryside.
We have to prevent this 1% threshold value from becoming a precedent and being applied to the labelling of other products in future.
I support a democratic and comprehensive policy for genetically modified products.
Finally, I would like to point out to the Commissioner that standardisation alone does not suffice.
I hope that Commissioner Liikanen will be able to respond positively to these four questions and requests.
It is possible to separate GM crops both in the fields at harvest time, in the course of transportation and during processing.
The second point regarding a review is that the industry needs certainty: so constant changes every 12 months are no good for the industry, and indeed confusing for the consumer.
This subject has already been discussed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on 15 November.
With the proposal amending Regulation No 1139/98, laying down a de minimis threshold for the adventitious presence of authorised GM material, we are responding to the Council's mandate on labelling of GM foodstuffs.
The draft aims to solve the problem of labelling foods when operators have tried to avoid using GM material and can prove this but nevertheless small amounts of GM material are found in them.
I would also like to mention that this value is stricter than thresholds applied by other countries like Switzerland, Norway and Japan.
The debate is closed.
