Resumption of the session I hereby declare resumed the session of the European Parliament which was adjourned on 30 January 1997.
In accordance with article 12 of the Act concerning the election of representatives to the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, the house recognizes this vacancy and informs the Member State concerned of its existence.
Bernard Tapie had given his personal undertaking to you, Mr President, and to our Committee on the Rules of Procedure, that he would resign if his criminal conviction was upheld.
But nobody, whether here in this House or among French public opinion, is in any doubt regarding the political opportunism which lay behind the legal persecution of which Bernard Tapie is the victim.
In accordance with article 12 of the Act concerning the election of representatives to the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, Parliament recognizes this vacancy.
I welcome Mrs Karamanou and remind you that, by virtue of paragraph 4 of Rule 7, until such time as a Member's credentials have been verified or a ruling has been given on any dispute, the Member shall take his seat in Parliament and on its bodies and shall enjoy all the rights attaching thereto.
It concerns a human rights issue which I raised in December last year and I wish a discussion on the matter under Rule 97.
It is a question of the continued incarceration of Roisín McAliskey in a Category A prison in Britain - Holloway Prison to be precise.
Roisín McAliskey is being kept in a Category A gaol without adequate medical care.
Order of business The draft agenda drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 13 February 1997, under Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, has been distributed.
I shall now put the request from the Fisheries Committee to the vote. (Parliament approved the request) Monday and Tuesday I have not received any proposals for changes, but I would remind you that I already informed you on 13 February, pursuant to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, that 71 Members had tabled a motion of censure on the European Commission for its attitude in the management of the BSE crisis (B4-0056/97 /rev.2).
The motion of censure has been forwarded to the Commission.
Mr President, I have already put the points the Group of the European Radical Alliance is making today at the Conference of Presidents.
Mr President, colleagues, the EU's dependence on imported energy is likely to increase from the present figure of 50 % to around 75 % by the year 2015.
The European Community and its Member States signed the European Energy Charter in The Hague in 1991.
In 1994 a total of 50 parties signed the Energy Charter Treaty and the Energy Charter Protocol, concerning energy efficiency and related environmental aspects, to create a sound international legal basis for the principles and objectives stated in the Protocol.
Particularly in Central and Eastern Europe and the CIS States, energy savings of as much as 30-40 % could be achieved.
The Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and related environmental aspects constitutes a good basis for more exacting environmental protection, particularly by promoting energy efficiency.
When building new power stations, Eastern European countries could be expected to adhere to the same emission standards for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulates as apply in the West.
New projects and measures to be implemented within the framework of the Treaty must also be preceded by a compulsory Environmental Impact Assessment.
Difficulties in maintaining nuclear power stations have increased in Central and Eastern European countries and the CIS States, as has trafficking in plutonium.
Since the Treaty is of considerable importance, I recommend that the European Parliament gives its assent to the Council and Commission Decision to adopt, on behalf of the European Communities, the Energy Charter Treaty and the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and related environmental aspects.
To try where possible to formulate low-cost and economically efficient energy efficiency policies and take adequate account of environmental aspects, as stated in Article 3 of the Protocol, sounds pretty weak.
Then there was the idea of economizing elsewhere, in less costly areas, e.g., in the CIS or the Central and Eastern European countries.
The greenhouse effect could be curbed effectively if the leaks in the gas pipelines between Siberia and Eastern Europe were sealed.
Even if only 5 % of methane escapes, the greenhouse effect potential is just as great as the potential of the 95 % that remains as CO2 after incineration.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Energy Charter is the framework of the political agreement between the countries of the east and the countries of the west, and amongst the eastern countries, the Russian Federation looms large.
In the eastern countries between 30 and 40 per cent of the energy consumed could be saved.
The Russian Federation obtains 60 % of its foreign currency from the export of energy products and this could be greatly increased, and the western countries could also reduce consumption by 20 %.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Energy Charter and the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and related environmental aspects have already been in the pipeline for quite some time.
The Charter has not been signed by either the United States or Russia and, without these partners, the Treaty seems somehow incomplete, particularly as regards issues of nuclear safety in Eastern European countries - issues that the Charter could, nonetheless, help us to tackle within a cohesive framework.
The other concern is the effectiveness of our actions with regard to improving nuclear safety in the Central and Eastern European countries that were members of the former Soviet Union.
The Charter will only have visible results in the eyes of the public if the issue of nuclear safety in Eastern Europe is brought under some control.
Investment in energy efficiency can best be made where the environmental benefit will be the greatest and at present that is in Central and Eastern Europe, where energy savings of 30 to 40 % can be achieved by simple means.
The Union will in future have to do all it can through programmes like SYNERGY and PHARE to promote energy-saving measures in Eastern Europe, because they are sorely needed.
Where you have a potential 30 % to 40 % saving, which is the case in some of these countries, how absurd that this is not the first strategy, top of the list on every occasion way beyond building unnecessary nuclear reactors.
Mr President, the energy situation of the countries of central and eastern Europe is such that we must think about the vital ways of monitoring the efficient use of energy resources and how they can be implemented.
Mr President, I believe that the European Parliament should give its assent to the European Energy Charter which was underwritten in The Hague in December 1991.
The Energy Committee of the European Parliament is right to urge the European Commission to press for negotiations with a view to removing uncertainties by conferring a binding force on the protocol on nuclear safety within this Charter.
Greater protection of the environment is, of course, important and the European Union has made a start in the right direction in this regard by finalizing the SAVE III programme which is designed to support measures for reducing carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere.
I believe this to be completely unacceptable as a policy for the European Union or its Member States.
The report states that the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and related environmental aspects provides a good basis for greater protection of the environment, especially by promoting energy efficiency, but the wording is meaningless.
As I am sure you know, the European Energy Charter - a declaration of intent that is not legally binding - has now been signed by 51 states and by the European Community.
This Energy Charter Treaty is the first economic agreement signed by all the republics of the former Soviet Union, the Central and Eastern European countries, the European Community and its 15 Member States and other OECD member countries.
In November the Commission submitted the communication and proposal for a Council and Commission decision on the conclusion of the Energy Charter Treaty and the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and related environmental aspects.
I think we can also assume that the other independent states and the Central and Eastern European states, will react to this signal.
Without a shadow of doubt the Energy Charter Treaty will promote cooperation between East and West, which is in the end in the interest of us all.
The debate is closed.
In this context, the Structural Funds are of particular significance as an instrument for trying to reduce the serious disparities between the various regions of Europe.
So, why does this continue to be a difficult situation for Italy to manage?
That is thanks to him, of course, but also thanks to an overall working method established within the Committee on Regional Policy, for discussing and researching all cases of structural intervention in all Member States and not, of course, in Italy alone.
In particular in Italy, most of the Structural Funds, in terms of quantity, are of course concentrated in the regions covered by Objective 1, that is, in southern Italy, as has already been pointed out.
The worst delays concern some of these regions - not all of them - but in particular the largest of them: Sicily, Campania and Apulia.
Finally, I should like to point out that this issue of non-use, or of failure to make good use, of the Structural Funds is one that concerns other Member States also.
In Italy, although a regional structure has existed for some years and some of the regions have been autonomous for all that time, the principle of subsidiarity has failed miserably to be applied in the majority of cases.
I believe that lack of information has been one of the main obstacles to full use of the funds.
It is, however, essential that the principle of additionality be respected, particularly in the case of the southern regions, which are now faced both with a significant cut in State financial support and with the problem of under-use of the Structural Funds and are thus in danger of a twofold loss.
Mr President, the Treaty of Rome was signed in 1957 and now, after forty years of European construction, we have to admit that, according to the annual report of the Court of Auditors, most of the errors concerning management of the Structural Funds can be attributed to the Member States.
Let us all work towards ensuring that the scope of the Structural Funds is extended, that they include cultural activities in the areas coved by Objective 5b, and especially mountain regions, but, above all, let us commit ourselves to ensuring that this Europe becomes increasingly democratic and federal, comprising federal States, and that regional bodies can express themselves, in the management of the Structural Funds as elsewhere, and prove that they can do a better job than the State of which they are a part.
It is nonetheless a fact, as all my Italian colleagues here know, that the Community Structural Funds continue to be a vital resource for Italy - but, in particular, for the development of its southern regions, where unemployment has now reached close on 20 %, as is rightly mentioned in the report.
What has emerged is a unique situation in which Italy is one of the countries that has the greatest need for funds but which makes the least use of them.
As regards the 'if' , that is, greater efficiency and speed of use, I take up Point 6 of the motion for a resolution to specify, in the event of delays by regional governments, which alternative public agencies, including replacements, should be the protagonists of local partnerships: for example, agencies and projects involved in regional employment initiatives, which are increasingly common and effective instruments of development in the regions covered by Objective 1.
One of the most marked differences between Italy's situation and that of its main partners is the extent and persistence of regional disparities.
But the fact that, in these areas, we have more concentrated interventions, albeit with fewer funds and, all in all, a method - reindustrialization - that goes hand-in-hand with an existing economic, productive and administrative fabric, should lead us to expect that the delays can be made good more quickly.
Having said this, however, it is my opinion that this experience of Objective 2, which has been a real and very important experiment, not only in Italy, and which has brought the public and private sectors face to face and thrown up new ideas concerning long-term planning, has aspects that we need to address from a critical viewpoint in the reform of the Structural Funds.
The European Union's Structural Funds were set up in order to promote lasting economic and social development.
The record of their implementation has been the subject of much criticism, in particular due to the obstacles and delays in the utilization of aid.
We must therefore find a solution before 1999, in the framework of the next Structural Fund review.
One is the concern Mr Podestà has mentioned about the future of the structural funds and the need for the European Union to determine this when the funds are reviewed in 1999.
So the problem of applying the structural funds will continue to be important in the future.
As you know, in July 1995 the Commission negotiated a comprehensive package of measures with the Italian government in order to improve the management of the structural fund programmes.
It should also be pointed out once again that all the Italian regions also approved this package of measures in September 1995.
At my most recent meeting with the Italian minister of finance, Mr Ciampi, on 20 January, our talks focused on assessing what has been achieved so far.
At present the payments to the final recipients account for more than 14 % of the total amount, compared with 7.7 % in May 1996.
Compared with other Member States, Italy is, however, still very much offside, because the EU average is about 35 %.
The Commission hopes these measures will have a positive effect even in the course of this year and it will carry out the evaluation you called for during the 1998 financial year on the basis of these measures.
And I would appeal to you: let us not create new structures now but let these new proposals and the cabina di regia finally become operative at all levels.
We have also made progress in involving the economic and social partners, both in the framework of the 1995 agreement and in relation to the new Objective 2 programmes.
The structural funds offer Italy a unique opportunity, with a view to economic and monetary union, to make progress with budgetary consolidation, without disregarding forward-looking investment.
Thank you very much, Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
The debate is closed.
German unity, which was only possible with the assent of the Member States of what was then the European Community, has given us Germans the chance to see what belongs together come together again, as a former Member of this House, Willy Brandt, put it in 1989.
Primarily this is of course a German task, but it is also a European one, at least insofar as when the former GDR was very rapidly integrated in our common single market, it was - and I want to emphasize that strongly - the first region of the former Central and Eastern Europe planned economies to do so.
That is why concentrated support from the European structural funds in the new Federal Länder was, is and will remain necessary and is very gratefully received by the people concerned.
In this context, the regional economic and social partners must be involved more closely in the activities of the supporting committees.
But there are other Federal Länder, in particular among the new ones, where more effort needs to be made here.
The explanation is that the European Union is paying attention to the situation in Germany and, as the rapporteur Gerhard Botz just said, is giving massive support to the new Länder.
But the European Union is also assuming responsibility for the weaker regions in the old Federal Länder.
In Germany the European Union is assisting what are regarded as the fallen giants in Objective 2 regions.
Secondly, the European Union is also assisting the rural regions, which are quite different from the industrial ones because they have to tackle different problems, namely the lack of infrastructure and also the fact that the European agricultural policy creates difficulties for them.
In the case of Objective 5b regions, the figure was only 51 %.
We fully and entirely support the outstanding report by my friend Gerhard Botz.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group let me first acknowledge and express my appreciation for the common efforts made by Germany and the European Union towards the economic recovery of the new Federal Länder and the successful contribution of the structural funds towards improving the situation in German Objective 2 and 5b regions, as the rapporteur also did so well in his report.
For instance, in 1994 the Commission did not permit a uniform programming document to be drawn up.
The Commission interprets the respective regulations very broadly - or at least this is what was constantly confirmed in practice.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, Mr Botz, I think you have produced a splendid report on the structural funds position in Germany, which is an obligation for Germany - as you yourself said so well - and an obligation for Europe.
You have highlighted two important points in your report which could also be applied to other States.
In the Objective 2 regions, ECU 1 590 million are also to be set aside for the economic and social restructuring of industrially backward regions.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that the Botz report gives an objective picture and a critical view of the development problems and structural measures in Germany over the period 1994 to 1999.
Furthermore, in my view it also means that in future we should concentrate on fewer but more effective programmes and press ahead with them.
This applies in particular to the pilot projects, for which only 1 % of structural fund resources are available but which involve a lengthy and costly application procedure and in the end are not authorized for lack of resources.
Between 1991 and 1993, the structural funds helped create and preserve more than 220 000 jobs in East Germany and I hope the figure will be even larger not just in East Germany but in Germany as a whole over the current assistance period.
So I welcome the fact that the report takes a most positive view of this contribution from the European structural funds both to Objective 1 regions and to improving the situation in the German Objective 2 and 5b areas.
Mr Botz, in your report you address a widespread concern in the new Federal Länder in noting that the first green shoots of economic recovery in 'regions of hope' must not be jeopardized by a premature reduction in support rates.
Perhaps we should draw a lesson from this that we do not only need major changes in the Commission and that there is in fact some reason to believe that we can all achieve improvements through cooperation and partnership, on the basis of the subsidiarity principle.
For the rest I hope that the SEM 2000 procedure concerning eligibility for assistance will bring some relief even in the short term.
And when you consider that the majority of resources are based on advance payments and only the last 20 % depend on the measures actually being taken, I do believe this is a very generous system.
Let me just point out again that of course we cannot say on the one hand that we want strict controls, that we want sound financial management, while on the other hand we just keep paying advances and do not make sure that in the end the measures really have been carried out and carefully executed.
The debate is closed.
As I say in my report, the Union's cohesion policies can actually have a prejudicial effect on the environment in some cases.
For example, cleaning up beaches and setting up a biological purification plant in a tourist area, particularly in the regions in the south of the Union at which the cohesion policies are principally aimed, not only benefits the environment of the area but also makes it more attractive for tourists and therefore contributes to its development.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the budgetary authority our House has shown, with what is called the greening of the budget, how much importance it attaches to environmental policy within the Union's expenditure policy.
Moreover, we must emphasize that, as stated by the rapporteur, there is still an imbalance between transport infrastructure projects and environmental projects.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in its communication on cohesion policy and the environment, the Commission presents a detailed and illustrated overview of the factors necessary for achieving complementarity between cohesion policy and environment policy, a complementarity which presupposes that development has the least possible impact on the environment and that both can go hand in hand in harmony.
However, as the rapporteur points out in his report, considerable efforts are needed and progress must be made on evaluation and control of the programmes, both before they take place and afterwards.
The Commission recognized this in the seventh annual report on the structural funds in 1995, when it stated that it remains necessary to improve both evaluation and environmental monitoring of the programmes.
And finally, mention must be made of the primordial role the local and regional authorities need to play, because their participation in the decision-making process and the management of the programmes must inevitably be increased to achieve greater efficiency, as the environmental impact is most obvious at local and regional level and that is where the most direct work on sustainable development can be done.
Madam President, I agree that the Hatzidakis report is an excellent one, but for the Commissioner's benefit I should say that two years ago we had more or less this self-same debate in Parliament and singularly little has improved since then.
I refer you to paragraph 12 of the resolution.
Regional aid goes back a pretty long way in Europe.
It is good that DG XVI has announced that the link between cohesion and environment will be made clearer.
In some countries of the Union this is the case, but it certainly is not in those countries which receive the lion's share of structural fund money.
The European Union's cohesion policies must provide for a substantial strengthening of the environmental dimension in the framework of their future implementation.
The supranational and, frequently, global scale of certain environmental problems demands cooperation at the local, regional, trans-frontier and international levels.
Cohesion and environment are, and must increasingly be, two basic objectives of European Union action.
The horizontal nature of both and their priority application to all Community policies already appear in the treaty - articles 130 A to 130 E.
Maintaining and empowering the cohesion fund in the future, strengthening structural funds measures and Community initiatives targeted on the environment and, in particular - I want to stress this - raising awareness, not only of national governments, but also of regional and local authorities and of citizens in general, are the essential routes to regarding the environment in the rural and backward peripheries of Europe as an investment in the future, generating employment and balanced and sustainable development.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, once again the European Parliament is definitely going to reassert its commitment to the principles aimed at guaranteeing the environment dimension in the elaboration and application at all levels of the European Union's cohesion policy.
We should like to see the implementation of these rules and guidelines simultaneously applied with equal consequence and effectiveness in every aspect of Community action, from agricultural policy to agro-industrial policy to industrial activities, more generally, in particular where - in the less developed countries and regions of the European Union - it is responsible for a large share of highly harmful toxic emissions which could actually damage the future of human life.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while travelling to Strasbourg today I read an article in a Spanish newspaper on concern about the environment amongst the international scientific community.
The report Mr Hatzidakis is presenting today on the Commission communication on cohesion policy and the environment specifically mentions the wide concern this issue arouses, not least amongst ourselves.
The need for Community structural measures to prevent the environment deteriorating, highly rational use of environmental impact studies, sharing the cohesion fund 50-50 between infrastructure and environmental projects, more effective monitoring committees, creation of a specific Community initiative on the environment...
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, to avoid repetition, I will just emphasize a few points: First, I note that the results of the cohesion policies in terms of regional development are positive overall.
Third, I agree with the rapporteur that the regulations on the cohesion fund are not always complied with, either in letter or in spirit.
The Commission must be vigilant and ensure that the 40 % of the fund allocated to environmental policies really does go to them.
But this report sets out a different scenario, viewing the environment and its inclusion in cohesion policies as a development factor in itself.
First because respect for the environment helps create agreeable surroundings, which is in turn a vector of productive investment, be it industrial or in the services sector.
And secondly because the environment is a productive sector in itself, and a great generator of jobs too, with some growth indicators higher than in traditional sectors.
I also want to stress that this report seeks to involve regional and local authorities in the planning, monitoring and evaluation stages for the structural and cohesion funds, and I would add implementation, where the regions have that power.
So I am convinced that greater regional participation in the planning, monitoring, implementation and evaluation of these funds will help improve and optimize them, and that this improvement will include the deepening of the environmental aspect of cohesion policies.
The environmental dimension and sustainable development absolutely must be taken into account in all Structural Fund and Cohesion Fund measures.
There are regions where sustainable development can be achieved only through sustainable development of the environment, for example where tourism is concerned - a field in which it is predicted that a great many new jobs will be created in the future.
Here I should like to stress only that in order for this Interreg II C initiative to succeed fully in those regions where it is implemented, it is essential to ensure that both the EU Member States and the third countries involved in the programme can participate fully.
Indeed, the thorough application of a concept of sustainable development is undoubtedly the solution for the future but it creates problems for those looking for immediate results.
In points 6, 8, 12, 15, 19 and 21 he puts forward solutions which deserve the full attention of the Commission.
To achieve it, the various cohesion programmes and measures must be directed not only towards regional development but also towards strengthening respect for the environment.
So the Commission itself must effectively respect the 50 % split between transport infrastructure and environmental measures in the cohesion fund.
We must give the committees monitoring work in progress greater power, and increase cooperation between the Commission and the Member States and NGOs.
The various Community initiatives and measures covered by article 10 of the ERDF must have a more profound effect on the protection and promotion of the environment, providing support systems for the SMEs involved and sectors like ecological and rural tourism, and indeed agriculture.
Environmental problems are different in countries in the north and south of Europe and, logically, the economic and financial solutions will therefore be different too.
All this means - and I am finishing, Madam President - the European Union must put all the necessary resources in place to finance a new policy deriving from the Single Act - environment policy - in order to support the tremendous efforts countries in the Mediterranean crescent, like Spain, have to make to apply certain Community provisions because they have a greater natural heritage.
However, I would have hoped that you would take more account of the written information passed on to the Committee on the Environment on 3 July last year.
Nevertheless, we are actively engaged on translating into practice the measures announced in the communication of 22 November 1996 on cohesion and the environment and the letter of 8 December, known as the declaration of intent.
At programme planning level, we want to tighten up the preventive measures in future and encourage a change of course towards sustainable development.
But I would ask you to consider that all the major programmes for 1994-1999 were already approved before this Commission took office and that this is the legal basis on which we have to work.
We had one practical opportunity and we have made use of it, namely for the second programming stage of Objective 2 for 19971999.
The mid-term review of Objective 1 and Objective 6 programmes which will occur this year also offers the Commission an opportunity to evaluate not just purely economic aspects but also questions of sustainable development.
However, I must point out that the cohesion fund and the structural funds are not environmental funds but that they are regional development funds and that we have to try to establish a sensible balance between what are at time very disparate interests.
For the Objective 1 and Objective 6 mid-term reviews the Commission is establishing a new matrix for qualitative environmental indicators and we hope that will take us forward a little too.
For the rest, the INTERREG 2c Community initiative also places emphasis on the environment, the protection of resources and water management.
Since the funds are administered decentrally and the Member States' national and regional authorities are solely responsible for selecting the individual projects, we have to start with the Member States themselves; and let me point out again that there is no obligation on them to notify smaller projects.
As speaker just said, the seventh annual report on the 1995 structural funds attaches great priority to the environmental dimension.
In accordance with the letter of 8 December 1995, for new large projects of a value of more than ECU 50 million the Commission will confirm in an environmental impact note that the project in question will not have any harmful environmental effects or that any such effects will be remedied during the execution of the project.
But I do realise, because I have discussions on these matters constantly and almost every day, how far we still have to go and how much support we need, particularly in the Member States, if we are to achieve our aims.
The debate is closed.
