Your comment concerned a linguistic correction, Mr Pompidou, and we must clearly do all we can to improve the text and make it more accurate.
When will the request signed by over 150 Members for improved safety measures in Brussels be acted upon?
That is a very relevant comment, Mr Rübig, and as you know, we are trying to put a stop to all this, but we cannot do it overnight.
However, I can assure you that a number of measures have been taken of the kind that you and many other Members have repeatedly called for.
As you will appreciate, Mr Rosado Fernandes, I let you speak even though that was not a point of order.
Thank you, Mr Bertens.
Integrating gender issues in development cooperation The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0291/98), on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the common position adopted by the Council (C4-0307/98-97/0151(SYN)) with a view to adopting a Council Regulation on integrating gender issues in development cooperation (Rapporteur: Mrs Junker).
Human prosperity generally would increase if women enjoyed the same status as men and had the same opportunities and the same social, economic and legal rights as men, including the right to reproductive health and protection against genderspecific violence.
This creed does not stem from some feminist manifesto, but a fact-filled United Nations publication on the situation of women in the world in 1995, which was published on the occasion of the fourth World Women's Conference in Beijing.
The problems are well-known.
The Commission has an obligation to Parliament here, but it has even more of an obligation towards women in the developing countries.
Madam President, we also looked very closely at the subject of development cooperation and genderspecific aspects of it in the Committee on Women's Rights.
The Action Platform provides us with a framework for action.
The good work done in the past by the units in DG Ib and DG VIII was also mentioned.
They not only supervised pilot projects on mainstreaming, but also developed procedures which made it possible to evaluate the gender impact of the individual projects.
Measures were also taken to raise awareness among staff in the Commission and other services of gender issues in development cooperation.
If the few posts in the Commission are now to remain unfilled, then all our efforts will be frustrated.
The utilisation rate of the resources in these two lines was very high at 93 %.
The measures for areas such as crisis prevention, human rights, democratisation and basic education must be implemented as soon as possible in the cooperation countries.
If we agree - and I am assuming that we will have a majority here in the House - that the time limit should be removed, then that is a very important decision.
The fact that Lord Plumb has just chosen the wrong moment to leave is another matter!
Even when we try to take account of gender issues in development policy we are still faced with the fact that societies in other countries have a traditional division of responsibilities, and we all know that trying to make radical changes never works.
In my opinion however, education should still be our top priority, not only because the proportion of illiterate women is especially high, but also because a higher level of education and training brings greater awareness of the issues of demographic development, and educated women would be more open to birth control.
In fact, I presented the report by Nel van Dijk in the Women's Rights Committee when Nel was absent, so it is a subject I know about.
I have just returned from India, from visiting the Dalai Lama in Dharamsala.
That may be important - the sensitisation and feminisation of policies within the Commission and within the rest of the Union - but the key should be to spend money from these budget lines on women's projects in the developing countries themselves.
We talked on the Women's Rights Committee about how we should feminise the policies more: to have effective standing committees with more women on them, to make sure there is better representation of women from the developing countries on ACP delegations, to make sure that we monitor and evaluate all development projects from the EU in terms of the impact on women within the developing countries, and to make sure the reports are fed back, not only to the Commission but to Parliament too, so that we can see that there is a true feminisation of EU development aid.
That is especially true in development issues.
Anyone who has been to Africa, for example, will have seen the major role played by women in the development process.
They make a vital contribution both to the economy - especially its informal or popular sector - and agriculture.
Yet, although they are the vehicles of development, in developing countries women are the victims of serious inequalities, social, family, economic and political discrimination, and their contribution to development is made despite considerable obstacles to their achieving equal treatment.
I therefore wish to tell you, on behalf of my group, the European Radical Alliance, that I am fully behind the recommendation of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, especially since for us taking gender issues into account in Community development activities is a vital element in their success.
The concept of equality between men and women must always be kept in mind.
It must also be taken into account in all European Union development aid measures in the future.
Madam President, as a man and as a Member of Parliament, I cannot but acknowledge that we live in a society, be it in the north or south, in which women find it very difficult to enter decision-making positions in social, political and economic spheres.
I believe we should concentrate on raising awareness of this problem, and the European Parliament has played an exemplary pioneering role here.
And lastly, why decree the end of a programme which seeks to strengthen the presence of women in the European Union's development agencies and policies, writing its death certificate five years in advance?
Madam President, firstly I should like to welcome Parliament's recommendation and express the Commission's appreciation of the support given by Parliament both for the creation of this budget line in 1990 and also for the Community's policy on mainstream and gender issues in development cooperation since the Beijing Conference on Women in 1995.
This proposed recommendation aims to provide a coherent and stable legal basis for measures which are of key importance to the quality and effectiveness of our development cooperation as well as for social justice and equality.
These differentials reduce the possibilities for women to make a significant economic and social contribution and they act as a brake on the development of society as a whole.
Simply to fund additional projects in favour of women would risk marginalising the importance of the issue.
Instead the proposed regulation provides measures to support the comprehensive inclusion of gender issues within the mainstream of the Community's development cooperation policies and programmes.
The Commission's position on the 20 amendments submitted for consideration and voting is as follows: We can fully support six amendments, Nos 1, 7, 9, 10, 14 and 20, and also parts of Nos 11, 17 and 18.
We can also partially embrace Amendments Nos 2 and 4, although we consider that some rewording is needed to retain a clear focus on the mainstreaming approach of the budget line.
Some amendments, for example Nos 12 and 13 and part of 18, would cause new procedural constraints, particularly related to interinstitutional requirements.
In the case of Amendment No 8, although we agree with the intention, the activities proposed are too ambitious for our staffing resources.
Finally, several amendments - Nos 16, 19 and part of 11 - would be inconsistent with the existing interinstitutional agreements or would involve changing existing committee procedures.
So we are grateful for Parliament's support in our efforts to try to progress this measure as quickly as possible.
Important steps are being taken to improve the gender sensitivity of Community aid programmes so the adoption of this regulation on integrating gender issues in development cooperation will provide a stable basis for this work and enable us to intensify our efforts.
Thank you, Commissioner Flynn.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Madam President, unemployment is the European Union's number one problem.
It manifests itself to varying degrees in the different regions of Europe, but it represents a serious threat to family peace and institutional stability everywhere.
It signals the victory of all those women in every corner of Europe who are joining the labour market in increasingly large numbers, thus indicating their unshakable desire to play a full part in work outside the home.
The first contradiction is that there have never before been so many women in paid employment outside of the home; at the same time, neither have there ever been so many women out of work.
The second contradiction is that, whereas female employment is increasing, the increase is primarily in part-time, insecure and fixed-term jobs.
Der Spiegel's survey of the labour market shows that on average women are 30 % more affected by unemployment, not to mention the fact that in some regions of the Union female unemployment is twice as high as the overall rate, more women are being pushed out of the labour market, women are forced into insecure, unprotected jobs (so-called atypical work) and, in spite of their qualifications, they are disadvantaged when it comes to career advancement.
The Marinucci report contains a whole series of very specific suggestions to make it easier for women to reconcile family and work.
Basically, however, a rethink is urgently needed, as is coordinated action between the Member States and the EU institutions.
The Employment Summit has started the ball rolling, but the proposals in the national employment plans for ensuring equal treatment for men and women are completely inadequate.
The Marinucci report makes a number of good suggestions.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have made further progress in the fight against unemployment.
In Essen, in 1994, under the German Presidency, we laid the foundations for a comprehensive strategy on cooperation between Member States.
Companies headed or founded by women are still in an all too obvious minority.
We in the Liberal Group feel that the general approach adopted in the report is too defensive, too concerned about the need for flexibility on the labour market and, in places, unrealistic.
The latest Eurostat figures show that unemployment affects women more, with an average throughout the European Union of 12.3 % compared with 8.9 % for men.
There are countries in which that difference is even larger, for example in Spain the corresponding figures are 27.8 % and 15 %, while the 1996 labour force survey showed that women account for 63.5 % of the officially unemployed population.
The rapporteur presents a series of very important proposals designed to facilitate a more accurate evaluation of economic activity by women, and measures to be implemented by the Commission and the Member States in order to give women easier access to the workplace and improve the quality of their jobs.
Firstly, women's unemployment.
These days, in spite of the 1975 directive - with which Mr Flynn is very familiar - on equal pay for men and women, there continues to be a 25 or 30 % gender gap in earnings for the same type of work.
Also, the participation of women in part-time work merits attention.
However, this means that they receive fewer social benefits during unemployment and on retirement.
There are no statistics available to show how the Structural Funds were previously used to attain equality between men and women, or how this famous mainstreaming was achieved, although I prefer to talk in terms of using all the mechanisms at our disposal through European policies to eradicate inequality.
Mr Flynn, you were at the conference on Structural Funds that was held in Oporto, Portugal, a few days ago.
According to the newspapers you criticised Parliament for not having paid enough attention to equal opportunities in its position on the Structural Funds.
Her report and the other reports being debated here today offer us a further opportunity to look at the situation of women.
Female unemployment is far higher than male unemployment in the 15 Member States of the Union, with the exception of the United Kingdom and Sweden.
Discrimination in the labour market remains very strong and little change has been registered in wage inequality.
In a country like Spain, where the rate of unemployment is very high, women are finding it extremely difficult to find a job.
France and Finland are also experiencing record levels of female unemployment.
Not only are women hardest hit by unemployment but the family constraints by which they are bound still have a negative impact on the level of unemployment benefits that they receive.
As our rapporteur points out, since unemployment benefits are calculated on the basis of income in most Member States, it is clear that women are hit harder by unemployment in such cases.
The rapporteur proposes a raft of measures likely to offer women a chance to benefit considerably from protection against unemployment.
A good many are endeavouring to do so but others are still at the stage of wishful thinking, although a few have made efforts in certain sectors.
Mr President, Mrs Marinucci's report is very thorough.
It takes into account our discussions in committee and I must thank the rapporteur, in particular, for paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 on page 14 of the explanatory statement.
We broadly share the views expressed, especially as they are borne out by recent studies and statistical data: eliminating obstacles to employment, promoting the participation of women in vocational training, improving access to social protection for the unemployed and, furthermore, drawing up more detailed legislation on all forms of atypical work, which affects a huge number of women.
Thus there is a need to create proper social structures to assist working women: approved childcare facilities, but also proper services to care for the elderly and handicapped.
All these facilities are of course costly for the Member States, especially at a time of recession, but we must safeguard the right of women to have a job, without this standing in the way of their right to have children, because in a society where the birth-rate is falling children benefit us all.
Women now occupy the majority of part-time jobs: 83 %.
Part-time work is often presented, traditionally at least, as a positive element enabling women to reconcile work and family life.
Contrary to what tends to be claimed, part-time work is not chosen by women but, in most cases, by employers; in any case, it is a real problem inherent to our way of life.
It is seldom found in industry or in jobs with responsibility; it is often limited to low-skilled jobs or particular sectors.
The rapporteur feels that, whereas part-time working should be encouraged in the current labour market, it should be extended to skilled work, men should be encouraged to practise it, and all part-time workers should be guaranteed training and promotion opportunities.
Since this will never be achieved without a fight and without carrying out gradual reforms over time, the European Union must begin by examining all the discriminatory effects that any employment policy is likely to entail.
Mr President, during the economic crisis in the 1930s, certain countries, including mine, passed legislation or regulations forbidding access by women to the civil service, for example.
In the 1950s, it was still common practice in my country to sack women when they married.
It is obvious that our laws and, in particular, European directives on equal treatment and equal opportunities for men and women prohibit the direct forms of discrimination that I have just described.
But, alas, although the laws have changed, you still find people who tend to blame women for wanting to take advantage of their right to work and they continue to influence certain policy-makers.
The Committee on Women's Rights was therefore right to draft an own-initiative report on the special impact of unemployment on women.
Some passages in this report contain exaggerations or over-generalisations, and unrealistic claims are made.
I hope that by November, we shall be able to debate my report on the matter in the House.
We shall help women more, and above all, by guaranteeing them and their partners a free choice between a career and family life.
I should like to take this opportunity, Mr Flynn, to ask you to give us further information on this subject.
In addition, women in regional development schemes have up till now been the victims of discrimination in spite of all the equality targets, although we underline the importance of these in Structural Fund reform programmes.
The matter of women and employment raises endless theoretical and practical issues.
The first is that of the new profile given to employment.
More training and qualifications are particularly essential for women who, as a social group, are still the victims of the sexist, discriminatory social division of labour.
In a recent report on the competitiveness of the textile industry I took the opportunity to propose this approach, which was accepted.
Of course, like her, I am in favour of equality between women and men at work, in favour of equal pay for the same work, in favour of equal opportunities for men and women seeking employment, and for reducing the gap between men and women in terms of unemployment.
All of these inequalities are quite shameful since our laws are very clear in each of our countries on this subject.
On the other hand, while we agree on the principle of integrating women in the world of work, we do not agree with you on certain ways of bringing that about.
We are resolutely against the system of quotas that you propose, for example in paragraph 17 of your motion for a resolution, since being a woman should not be regarded as a disability.
We are also against compulsorily penalising countries for failing to respect equal opportunities between men and women as you see them.
Offering women opportunities to succeed in the world of work while, in certain cases, tending to their children and family life, does not mean that they should be forced to do this at all costs.
Firstly, female employment is essential both for economic growth and for maintaining the European social model that we wish to preserve.
Men are now discovering that, if women do not work, revenues will not be sufficient to meet social security obligations.
I hope that the appropriate conclusions will be drawn in terms of education policy, vocational training, regulation of nonstandard employment, support for new working time systems and new forms of work and, in particular, the social economy.
Funding from the Structural Funds should be allocated to companies which offer facilities to care for children, dependents and the elderly, and support should be offered to companies created by women to enable them to resolve such problems.
In many countries, existing policies in the areas of taxation or benefits to couples serve as a disincentive and exacerbate the difficulties faced by women who wish to work.
Disparities between men and women have of course always existed, although some societies have demonstrated greater civility than others.
The Commissioner, Mr Flynn, is also well aware of it.
Furthermore, women are often left in the dark as to the few opportunities offered by the labour market, nearly always finding out belatedly and only after an initial selection has been made.
Well-qualified job-seekers and early, precise information are therefore crucial elements in a fair share-out between men and women of part-time and other work, as well as in eliminating pay discrimination between the two sexes.
It is true that we have discussed equality between men and women many times in this House.
I personally think that this is not just a perfectly legitimate choice to make, but that the work that these women do at home deserves to be fundamentally re-evaluated both financially and morally after decades of feminist indoctrination.
It would offer an alternative which hundreds of thousands of people in Europe would certainly be delighted to take advantage of, and it would for the first time offer people a genuine choice between working at or outside the home.
Mr President, how can we use the EU to bring more women into work, and how can the EU play a part in ensuring that help is given to women working in casual and precarious forms of employment, under the constant threat of becoming unemployed?
The bulk of the work is needed in the Member States themselves, but the common objectives should ensure that the Member States have to live up to their promises.
When the Member States have to present their action plans to one another and to their citizens, it will be possible to expose those countries which are failing to meet the common objectives - a kind of EU competition in equal treatment on the labour market.
An environment has to be created as quickly as possible which makes it easier to reconcile work and family.
I believe that this idea should be considered at a European level too.
I shall therefore confine myself to just three comments on the excellent and interesting report by my colleague Mrs Marinucci.
Nowhere in the Union do women receive the same pay for the same work.
Even in my country, the Netherlands, the difference is about 30 %.
Mr President, many of the long-term unemployed and those in part-time work in almost all EU countries are women.
I thank all those who have contributed to the constructive debate this morning.
In its first part the report highlights the gender gap in unemployment since, in almost all the Member States, women's unemployment is higher than men's.
The report has rightly stated that care facilities are not sufficiently developed in all the Member States.
The report is even more interesting as it goes much beyond the unemployment situation of women as such.
It also discusses the position of women on the labour market generally, the efficiency of education and training, and the European employment strategy from Essen to Luxembourg and Cardiff.
The Commission will, in cooperation with Eurostat, continue to work to improve the provision of statistics on the labour market situation for women.
The annual report on equal opportunities for women and men in the Union contains a lot of gender-segregated statistics on several issues related to equality.
The conclusions of the Cardiff European Council in June 1998 call on all the Member States to ensure that equality between women and men will be mainstreamed in all aspects of their employment policies.
The fourth pillar of the employment guidelines on strengthening equal opportunities policies states that the Member States should strive to raise levels of access to care services where needs are not met.
We will be looking closely at how the Member States address this issue, the policies they develop, and the resources they apply in their employment action plans for 1999 and subsequent years.
The European employment strategy has already shown its value in the way it has placed equal opportunities firmly at the heart of all the national employment plans.
The challenge for 1998 was to get the process up and running.
Mr Delcroix, Mrs Angelilli, Mr Schäfer and other Members made a very good point about part-time work and the part-time directive.
Finally, in that speech I went out of my way to encourage Parliament to press the Member States to adapt their policies to make it easier to combine family and working life and for women to retrain when they re-enter the labour market after an absence spent caring for children or other dependents.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken today at 12 noon.
My own report investigates one specific aspect of employment, namely the linkage between cooperatives and women's employment.
I therefore believe - and here I am addressing the Commissioner, Mr Flynn, as I know that he is sensitive to these issues - that the European Union should play a truly active role in the social economy as a whole.
Research is needed into the scale and nature of the cooperative sector and, in particular, its development in the various countries.
I think it can readily be said that - at least over the past twenty years - the European Union's equal opportunities policy has been one of its very few successful policies in the social field.
The directives issued, despite a very flimsy legal basis - Article 119 - have enabled progress to be made in this direction.
The social economy cannot solve all employment problems; it is one solution among others, such as the policy of mainstreaming, investment, and the consideration of employment as a priority issue, in funding terms among others.
I would refer, for example, to a specific problem which we shall be discussing in a few weeks' time: the budget.
Mr President, I would also like to talk about this issue.
Mr President, the Basque people and the Basque nation have endured many years of violent conflict that have ravaged our society.
After that, the rest of Amendment No 26 would remain. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, according to my sitting notes, if Amendment No 14 is adopted, Amendments Nos 4 and 18 lapse.
You have set me a problem, Mr Weber, because Parliament's services inform me that the content has been deemed incompatible.
Amendment No 18 Mr President, we do not need to waste time on unimportant issues.
Our Amendment No 18 specifies the form which this reduction should take.
There was no problem about putting your amendment to the vote, but in our opinion that was not the right thing to do. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, as I think you were a little quick on the draw over the ARE Group's proposal.
I did go quickly, that is true, but we have a very long series of votes.
So the words: 'point to the importance of the cease-fire declared by the PKK on 28 August 1998 and calls on the Turkish authorities to seize the opportunity thus created to seek a peaceful and negotiated political solution to the Kurdish question' , are to be placed at the end of paragraph 16.
However, if an oral amendment is possible, I would propose that we emphasise the need for a cease-fire and leave the remaining text unchanged, without mentioning the PKK.
Mr President, if, on that basis the PPE will vote 'for' , then I will accept it.
We still need to vote on paragraph 17. (Parliament adopted the resolution) The Commission's proposal is rightly aimed at including the gender aspect as an important factor in all areas of development cooperation.
Giving conscious attention to the gender aspect - and we should even be talking here about 'affirmative action' in favour of women - is a necessary precondition for effective and sustainable development in the developing countries.
This applies to Amendments Nos 15 and 16, for example, whereby the developing countries will be given priority in the award of contracts.
We are also voting against Amendments Nos 6 and 11, which concern the timescale.
We also approve of having a financial reference amount in this situation.
The gender aspect should be included as a natural part of an effective and rational development policy.
In addition, we should like to highlight and endorse the initiative in the common position which makes it possible for the Commission to hold meetings with representatives of the Member States and the recipient countries with a view to increasing awareness of the gender aspect in new areas of development cooperation.
SMEs are the engines of our economic growth, as well as employers of most of our fellow citizens who work in the private sector.
This goes above all for the larger companies and public sector organisations which can afford to settle their bills but who perhaps like the idea of deferring payment to net more interest on the money in their bank accounts.
Therefore all moves or initiatives in support of small businesses promote Europe's economic growth in general and are certain to help in achieving regional economic cohesion.
Obviously it is neither possible nor would it be healthy to make the 15 tax systems of the Union's Member States uniform.
In March of this year, the European Commission presented a proposal on the payment of interest and fees between associated companies in different Member States.
It seems fair to propose that these payments should be taxed in the Member State where the companies being paid interest or fees are established.
The different systems of VAT have nothing to do with VAT rates, but concern the way in which a product is taxed when it crosses a national frontier.
Miller report (A4-0064/98) First of all, the proposal for a Council Directive under consideration concerns an amendment to Directive 92/12/EEC and is aimed at increasing the Commission's powers on the regulation of excise duties.
We feel that the application of administrative procedures between the Member States should be improved in order to facilitate and develop intra-Community trade in products subject to excise duties.
Furthermore, new Member States after any future enlargement of the European Union would not be obliged to agree to these guidelines.
At the same time, this new procedure will undoubtedly make it possible to limit VAT fraud in transfrontier areas: in order to bring this about, there is no use whatsoever in harmonising VAT rates, regardless of the proposal set out in the Castagnède report.
Another example to show how far removed the Commission is from economic reality: a private customer in a Member State can come and buy up to 90 litres of wine on the wine-grower's property (with four in the car they could take away 360 litres of wine) without having to pay any excise duties, while a wine-grower cannot go and deliver a single litre of wine unless it is transported by an 'approved' operator.
All of us here know that the only companies creating jobs are small and medium-sized undertakings, yet the Commission penalises their development and as a result penalises the creation and development of employment.
To conclude, we call on the Commission to incorporate the recommendations by the Committee on Excise Duties in its proposal to the Council in order to avoid bureaucratic problems in the procedures that it imposes on all European Union operators.
Resolution on climate change (B4-0802/98) Mr President, in the year 1000 people were afraid of comets.
The sea is going to rise and we are all going to drown except, of course, for our centrist colleagues who know how to swim.
Another solution would be to illuminate the earth 24 hours a day so that chlorophyll can play its part.
Ritt Bjerregaard also has obviously no idea who could organise, monitor and, in the event of abuse, decide on punishment in future wrangles over polluted air.
Even European energy-saving programmes such as ALTENER II and SAVE II are merely paid lip-service by the Commission and the Council, but are not given adequate funding.
If Europe really wants to play a pioneering role in world climate policy, a great deal must first be done in Europe itself.
Resolution on the international financial crisis Mr President, during this debate on the international financial crisis we heard Jacques Santer tell us that the prospect of the euro is protecting us from the threat of widespread financial instability.
These problems obviously do not exist in Europe and there is no danger of seeing, here, a crisis similar to that hitting Korea or Indonesia.
Nonetheless, I disagree with the claim made by Mr Santer, albeit a more limited one, that the euro is protecting us from financial instability.
The euro per se is barely protecting us now but it might, on the other hand, become a severe handicap in the months to come.
The text of the motion for a resolution on the international financial crisis is very disappointing.
The text is inadequate since it proposes no possible ways of reforming the world monetary system in depth: the need for a new Bretton Woods, the organisation of large regional groups to define coherent monetary areas.
The text says nothing at all about the risks which this crisis might pose for certain industrial or banking sectors in Europe and therefore fails to consider the necessary support and adjustment measures which could be useful for protecting jobs in different sectors.
Resolution on political developments in Russia The IMF hands out credit.
Instead of the dictatorship of the Communist nomenklatura, the country is now in the grip of by mafias and oligarchies.
The motion for a resolution that Parliament has just adopted considerably increases the aid given to the new Russian government.
Yet our traditions of stateintervention, our post-war experience, our progressive conversion from economies that were largely administered to the common market put us in a better position than others to help to train a new Russian elite capable of handling the progressive changeover from a planned economy to a real economy.
The speed with which Russia embraced the techniques of democracy proves that if we had provided this training early enough and on a large enough scale it would certainly have been successful and would have helped Russia become part of a rediscovered greater Europe.
McMillan-Scott report (A4-0251/98) Mr President, I shall be brief in view of the time.
Almost three years ago in December 1995, we were required to deliver our opinion, for a second time, on a Customs Union with Turkey.
The second reason I gave was that, although Turkey had made progress in the area of human rights, much remains to be done.
Neither the Customs Union nor economic factors will change the Turkish people or the nature of their leaders.
Since then, the political situation has become much more complicated, economic growth has been hard to sustain and progress on democracy has not met our expectations.
Isolating Turkey would do nothing to improve the living conditions of its people or the human rights situation.
Administrative reform cannot be achieved without cooperation.
Little seems to have improved in Turkey's domestic situation since the Customs Union between Turkey and the EU came into force.
Relations between Turkey and the European Union have always been marked by the unsaid, or even hypocrisy.
Neither its history nor its civilization link this great Asian and Middle Eastern country to Europe.
In the human rights field, we must also remember that, for example in the legal domain, all states need to observe fair procedures that guarantee the right of defence.
In practice, the army today acts as a buffer against Islam.
In short, it seems clear that for reasons of history and civilisation and because of the human rights and economic situation, Turkey cannot form part of the European Union.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of the report on the annual review of the Customs Union between the EU and Turkey.
We wish to see the Turkish Government actively supporting: continued democratisation and protection of human rights and consolidation of political control over the armed forces; -the establishment of good neighbourly relations between Turkey and Greece in particular; -respect for the principles of international law in resolving the disputes in the Aegean; -a peaceful settlement of the Cyprus question.In our view, the principle of respect for human rights should be more closely linked to participation in a number of training programmes, and the human rights aspect should be included in the future work of the interinstitutional working party.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the Great Lakes region, today at the centre of our concerns, broke out more than four years ago and has now once again entered an acute phase, with the civil war in the Democratic Republic of Congo which broke out in August.
The Members of the European Parliament are all aware of the analysis of the current conflict and its link to the situation in the Great Lakes and ethnic problems - not only in Rwanda and Burundi but also in the province of Kivu and Lower Congo - and know that we believe that no solution can be found by military means or, in other words, by armed intervention.
We have said time and time again that it is vital to hold political negotiations in order to find a solution to the far-reaching political, economic and social problems besetting this region of Africa.
Furthermore, we are extremely frustrated not only that it is impossible to pursue a development policy but also that the infrastructures and institutions to which the European Union and its Member States have contributed in the past, not without some difficulty, have now been destroyed.
The European Union has taken a clear stance on this, especially in recent times, and its statement of 27 August is clear as to the conditions to be met in any attempt to solve this crisis.
Nor will it be possible to reach peace without solutions based on respect for Congo's territorial integrity and the security of its neighbours.
The regional conference we have spoken about so much is due to be held under the aegis of the Organisation for African Unity and the United Nations, though this does not, of course, preclude any contribution that the international community, in particular the European Union and its Member States, could make to its success.
Either of these two scenarios would be extremely worrying because, even in the first case, with the internalisation of the problem within Congo, instability in Congo vis-à-vis all of the neighbouring countries and the well-known situations of insecurity in those neighbouring countries would make it impossible ever to bring about stability in that part of the African continent.
I would also add, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the tasks for our Special Envoy will be to meet the Secretary-General of the United Nations and other senior United Nations officials currently monitoring the situation in the Great Lakes and in Congo.
There have been reports of violations of human rights by both sides in the conflict, and the authorities on both sides are using ethnic confrontation as a means of uniting the population around their political or military platforms.
Apart from that, the knock-on effect into the neighbouring countries, especially Rwanda and Burundi, could destabilise still further the fragile rebuilding of ethnic cohabitation in those countries.
To deal with this new crisis the Commission has earmarked a new budget of ECU 55 million for the Great Lakes region, of which around 10 million are destined for the Democratic Republic of Congo immediately.
However, I should like to say that it is extremely difficult for organisations providing humanitarian aid to gain access since security conditions are virtually nonexistent, and therefore we are trying to negotiate a code of conduct with the authorities on both sides to see whether it is possible for humanitarian action to take place with at least minimum guarantees for those involved.
Mr President, Commissioner, my group broadly agrees with your analysis and thanks you for it.
For decades, Zaire has experienced political dictatorship, corruption, poor economic management and human rights violations.
Although the Mobutu regime was clearly condemned and progressively isolated by the international community from 1982 onwards, the wealth of the country offset the economic isolation that should have resulted.
The new leaders withdrew into themselves, proving intransigent and so depriving themselves of the support of a large part of the population that did not accept the authoritarian procedures of the Alliance.
Recovery here is probably impossible without international aid, which has not been forthcoming, mainly due to a lack of confidence.
What is more, it is setting a very dangerous precedent for other countries in Africa.
In this context, we hope that the European Union will call for an immediate ceasefire and support African initiatives, in particular those of Nelson Mandela, to try to prevent unrest in the region and find a negotiated settlement to the Congo crisis.
Let the European Parliament speak with one voice because we, like the other democratic groups in this House, want to guarantee peace in this part of the world.
The Commissioner is undoubtedly an expert on Africa, he listed a number of problems, quite rightly pointed to the need to find solutions to them and described a number of possibilities.
When the refugees were forced on the move again only Emma Bonino was brave enough to point out that more than 300 000 of them had slipped away.
Have we forgotten that the Security Council decided that there should be military intervention, but a week later President Clinton announced that he would not be involved in the operation?
Ministers in the West made encouraging statements about having confidence in the new regime, and the conquerors set about expanding their empire.
There are probably eight countries involved in the troubles.
If it was happening in Europe people would be talking about the risk of a world war.
It may be a hopeful sign that the African countries want, and perhaps are able, to help to resolve conflicts in their own continent themselves, since Europe has no policy on the subject.
The Union could perhaps act as a facilitator, creating the right conditions to enable the Africans themselves to resolve their own conflicts.
The genocide of the Tutsis and the fall of Mobutu have opened Pandora's box and war is now raging from Brazzaville to Addis Ababa.
There is a clear lack of regional management structures, of structures that facilitate genuine cooperation in Africa between African countries themselves and which go beyond the existing structures between these countries and other regions such as the European Union.
Of course, it is a positive development that the Africans have begun to recognise that they have to find joint solutions for their major regional problems.
Nor can we simply declare Unita to be a political opposition party after 30 years of civil war and the sabotage of the peace process.
The forces of democracy in Congo have made a series of demands which we should actively support: defence of unity and self-determination, opening up the government for democratic forces, precise arrangements for future elections, clear dissociation from xenophobic tendencies, mobilisation of the interministerial commission for the protection of Tutsis and expansion of this to the whole territory, establishment of a ceasefire, withdrawal of all foreign troops and return of Congolese refugees to their home territory, the need to establish clearly who attacked whom, use of the media to promote peace propaganda rather than the propaganda of war and hatred, and, not least, provision of a peace-keeping force to ensure peace between the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighbours in the Great Lakes region.
In fact, judging by the list of signatories to the various motions for resolutions, one has the strange impression - strange but by no means new - that the Great Lakes situation is only of interest to Belgium and France, two countries that are dictating Europe's position because of the interests they have inherited from colonial history.
However, there are many who were in favour of Katanga seceding but at the same time continued to affirm the inviolability of the frontiers, whereas eastern Congo has been placed under the sovereignty of Uganda and Rwanda, both of which are anxious to guarantee their own security by legitimate methods.
But no-one has ever seen, and I have certainly never seen, Parliament show concern for the millions of Rwandans that were condemned to live outside the borders of their countries until 1994.
The fact is that Europe needs to concentrate its efforts on three objectives: security in eastern Zaire must be achieved, wherever the national border may be; we must help the real refugees to return to their countries, particularly Rwanda; and the would-be refugees who have been living in Congo and Europe for four years must be brought to trial for their part in the genocide in 1994.
The regional and national equilibrium is very precarious, making for a very unstable peace.
Participation and responsibilities shared among several countries could usher in a new era of peace and well-being, with the now indispensable help of Africa's European partners.
But we must persist in our efforts to find ways to settle the conflict, and particularly to strengthen and include all political forces in Africa which can, and above all wish to, contribute to bringing about stability and a solution to the conflict.
Scarcely had the guns fallen silent in Guinea-Bissau than a new focus of instability had flared up in the Democratic Republic of Congo, spreading its conflict into a series of neighbouring countries, from Angola to Zimbabwe, from Namibia to Rwanda, from Uganda to Burundi and Tanzania.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Congo crisis, the crisis in the Great Lakes region, faces us with a new political and geo-political problem in some respects.
The European Union must ensure that this process is a peaceful one, that reason prevails and not force, as happens in the total absence of a strong foreign policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we know that the recent conflicts in Africa, initially triggered by local ethnic issues, are now rapidly turning into all-out regional conflicts, affecting several countries and leading to thousands of deaths, millions of refugees, a progressive domino effect.
Although the presence of Angolan troops in the Democratic Republic of Congo is significant in itself, even more worrying is the decision of the Angolan Government unilaterally to suspend members of UNITA from their government functions and also to suspend members of that party from the Angolan National Assembly, even though they were democratically elected.
We also feel that systematically denigrating and isolating UNITA, which is currently prevented from gaining access to Angolan or international communications, is doing nothing to help the Angolan peace process.
We still think it is possible, with the new mediator and support from the European Union, to avoid a new war whose scale, effects and duration cannot be predicted, apart from the fact that it could also result in a further escalation of existing regional conflicts.
Mr President, I had intended to participate in this debate by forgetting my personal opinions and telling myself that perhaps I would hear something new that would enable the problems in Africa to be solved.
Colonisation was by no means perfect, but when I visit the countries of the former French Union, I am not ashamed of what my country did there.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Crises are no longer occurring within states, as in the past, but between states, calling into question a regional order which prevailed for almost forty years, albeit with many problems and severe injustices.
But such prudence must be accompanied by a great sense of humility on the part of the European Union, two things which, to my mind, go hand in hand.
It is firstly up to them to find a solution to the problem through dialogue and negotiations.
My second remark: the Commission must, as called for in the Port-Louis resolution, maintain the supply of humanitarian aid and this issue alone requires as much attention and more resources than all the others.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone will have understood that, whilst my group supports the joint text, I personally do not think that the Union can guarantee peace, security or stability in this part of the world.
As one of the recitals in this texts says, I believe we need to help secure peace and not simply to ensure peace.
Mr President, Commissioner, as I wrote to you, I visited Kinshasa at the beginning of August, at the time of the first curfew.
I had the opportunity to talk to young and elderly citizens alike, all of whom told me of their sympathy and support for Mr Kabila.
Belgium and other European states owe a large part of their current wealth to the exploitation of former colonies in the Great Lakes region.
I will end, Commissioner, by asking you why we are not taking the political initiative to confiscate, on behalf of Congo, the personal fortunes in property and liquid assets that Mobutu and his henchmen have amassed in Europe, including Switzerland?
I should like the European Parliament to know that what was promised - and I do not even know whether this has been paid yet - was up to 20 million dollars, in addition to the 90 million dollars which the European Union donated through the Commission just for rebuilding the roads leading to Kinshasa and for health measures (separate from other humanitarian aspects).
On the day before the vote, President Berisha received both myself and a fellow Member of this House as guests and pleaded with us to urge the socialists to recognise the election result.
The election result, which many representatives of this House considered to be absolutely just and fair, despite all the problems which arose, gave the socialists an absolute majority.
However, the situation which then arose was one in which President Berisha and his Democratic Party did not recognise the elections in Albania.
Therefore, I fully agree with Mr Frischenschlager that the European Union must not recognise any border changes brought about by violence, and not in Kosovo either, given all the problems that I dealt with yesterday.
Similarly, however, this House must recognise election results which have been achieved democratically.
I would therefore ask our conservative colleagues to suggest to President Berisha and his supporters that they put an end to violence, recognise the election results and work in the Albanian parliament in a peaceful and cooperative way towards a better future for their country!
However, we must also acknowledge that these opposition parties are all of the view that, where the law is concerned, there is a considerable state of confusion, not only in the opposition but also in the government, and that the most unfortunate methods are being used by all concerned, which undoubtedly aggravates the situation.
Today we have a new crisis, and we are again called upon to play a role which I think must be decisive.
Mr President, when I hear certain people going on about democracy, I would like to remind them that Fatos Nano himself came from a totalitarian party, that he was a long-time dictator and that he was removed from power and convicted of criminal activities.
The government has broken the law just as much as the opposition.
Those who, like myself, have had the opportunity to speak with Albanian refugees in Italy know that what they need more than anything else is a government, that government which it is so difficult to rebuild in such tormented circumstances.
Mr President, after the events of last year there were high hopes when at last democratic solutions were found and elections and parliamentary alliances finally produced a new government under Fatos Nano, who had been illegitimately imprisoned.
What this means now, in my view, is that the Fatos Nano government must do everything it can to find out who was responsible for the murder of Azem Hajdari, and also, first and foremost, that Mr Berisha and the democratic party must stop the provocation of the last week and their polarisation strategy of recent months.
Mr President, obviously the Commission is also extremely concerned at the recent events in Albania.
Increased violence obviously makes national reconciliation more difficult, even more difficult than it has been until recently.
At the same time, all interested parties should try to contain the situation, both in their statements and actions.
The main aim of the European Union's strategy must be to continue to help Albania work towards political stability, recovery and democratisation.
One thing is for sure: Albania is part of Europe and insecurity in Albania does not help to stabilise the Balkans.
What is currently happening in the former Yugoslavia and in Kosovo is more than enough for us to deal with.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
Members of the opposition are systematically arrested, imprisoned, disappear, are tortured and killed.
In the last two weeks alone 187 members of the NLD, Aung San Suu Kyi's party, were arrested and imprisoned.
This brings the total number of MPs and party leaders imprisoned since the beginning of the year to 783, 196 of them elected members of parliament.
Aung San Suu Kyi herself is under permanent restraint.
They are used as forced labour on a huge scale and treated so badly that 130 000 have fled across the border and are now in refugee camps in Thailand, Malaysia and Bangladesh.
Mr President, Commissioner, for ten years now Aung San Suu Kyi has been calling for democracy in Burma.
Fortunately their activities have drawn the attention of the world press, but she is occasionally forced to take the rare step of appearing or going into hiding in unusual places in order to keep that attention focused.
It was the biggest demonstration since 1996.
The fact that democracy and human rights are being repressed justifies an economic boycott.
Mr President, Commissioner, I shall not look in detail at our motion for a resolution which, of course, condemns the Burmese military junta and calls for political prisoners to be freed, including the many members of parliament elected in 1990 and arrested a few days ago, and which refuses to accept Burma's participation in the EU-ASEAN and ASEM meetings and, through Amendment No 7 bis, calls on the European Union not to contribute to the controversial UNDCP project in Burma.
I would like to take this opportunity to say that, within the framework of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, on 2 September I put forward a proposal - which was accepted by the Committee - that we should launch the operation 'One thousand Members of Parliament for Burma' .
Mr President, the three things we have to have an impact on in Burma to make the regime change are drugs, oil and tourism.
Premier Oil from the UK and Total from France are the major investors in oil.
If the US Government was rather more active in stopping the drugs trade emanating from Burma than it is compared to South America, that would also be more effective.
We have held many debates, and the Commission and the Council have always had our full support.
The treatment meted out to women and, more generally, the lack of respect for human rights are there for everyone to see.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we need to dwell too much on descriptions of the regime installed by the Taliban.
We are well aware of what it means in terms of fundamental human rights violations.
Consequently, our motion for a resolution calls on the Council and the Commission to intervene so that, at least in countries where there is a dictatorial regime such as Afghanistan and Burma, these inefficient and very costly programmes are withdrawn at the earliest possible moment.
A regime has now been installed throughout the country which holds international standards of human rights in contempt, which degrades women and denies them education.
Our objective must be to maintain, without wavering, our demands for full recognition of human rights in Afghanistan.
We fully support this resolution's request to the European Union, the UN and the UNDP to revise their programmes and introduce new measures to ensure that the money which we really urgently need in other areas does not fall into the wrong hands.
Priority must be given to affording the international aid organisations the necessary diplomatic protection to allow them to continue their work to help the impoverished Afghan population.
Three death penalties in three different continents.
Mr President, human dignity is inviolable, and the motives for the death penalty are contrary to human dignity.
The right to life, contempt for state murder under the pretext of punishment, the risk of miscarriage of justice, the disproportionate number of victims among the poor, and violations of human rights by the criminal prosecution authorities are, at least in the Philippines, where 600 are currently under sentence of death, arguments for upholding the moratorium and appealing to the newly elected president to exercise his authority and adhere to the aim of abolishing the death penalty.
Leo Echegaray's repulsive crime must not be used as a pretext for getting round this policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make particular reference to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party on a matter which concerns us: the possible extension of the death penalty in El Salvador.
I believe it is time to voice our concerns following the introduction of the proposal in the El Salvador Legislative Assembly by President Armando Calderón on 27 July.
We hope that the motion will not be ratified, but think it is necessary to inform the El Salvador Parliament of our opposition to this matter and also to show that we intend to support the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party.
Mr President, our group has for a long time rejected and fought against the death penalty.
Lastly, the key issue here is that on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights we could find ourselves taking a huge step backwards if, out of these three countries, the moratorium is lifted in two of them; in one the scope of the death penalty is extended; and in another more capital punishments are carried out.
My outright rejection of the death penalty was reflected in the words used by my colleague Mr Salafranca.
Cambodia Mr President, our group tabled an urgent motion for a resolution on Cambodia to put forward three main points.
Firstly, if the conditions in which the elections took place on 26 July were not entirely satisfactory - and they were far from it - it seems clear to everyone that we will not be able to build a democratic and peaceful future in Cambodia if this vote is disallowed.
What is more, since we tabled this motion for a resolution - and perhaps this is a sign of the efficiency of this Parliament - these three parties have made unquestionable progress in terms of collaboration.
I must say that the elections were, on the whole, fair and just, and 96 % of the European observers and 93 % of other international observers agreed on this.
Mr President, I really wonder whether the elections that were held in Cambodia could possibly have been free and above board.
I myself was an observer at the elections organised by the United Nations four years ago, the largest peace operation which the United Nations has ever carried out in the area.
Hun Sen must be made to realise that he can forget about international support if he continues down the path he has chosen of ruling on his own instead of by coalition.
Parliament, the European Commission of Human Rights and the Council of Europe have in numerous resolutions and declarations described the difference in the minimum age of consent for heterosexual and homosexual activities as a violation of human rights.
Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to welcome the fact that we are today discussing the discrimination that continues to exist on the grounds of sexual orientation, both in our Member States and in applicant countries.
It is because of this that in Austria alone we have approximately 20 convictions every year under this discriminatory offence.
In discussion, certain political groups always deny that non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is a human right.
In conclusion, therefore, I would like to ask the Commission whether it has any plans to make use of this right of initiative.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to clarify what is at issue for us in the PPE and ÖVP Groups in this Parliament.
Politicians must fulfil their responsibility towards young people.
This is why, only this summer in the reform of our criminal laws, the Austrian People's Party voted in the Austrian Parliament to retain the current age of consent as set out in Article 209.
We have full support in the PPE Group for this position, although we all know that opinions vary widely in the individual Member States on the sensitive issue of discrimination against homosexuals.
Non-discrimination is now enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty and all the same, I think that it will one day be necessary for us to implement it even if it goes against the grain.
I would like to have a number of things explained to me because I agree with practically everything that has been said and I do not wish to repeat it all, but we are not making ourselves credible in the eyes of those countries wishing to join the European Union, which we expect to reach certain standards in relation to human rights and respect for them.
For this refusal, this 'subsidiarity' excuse boils down to just one thing: homophobia, and homophobia unfortunately hides many other forms of discrimination and human rights violations which in the past and in Europe's recent history have been widely condemned.
I also think that we tend to be extremely offhand in the way we deal with the protection of minors these days.
I think that anyone like myself who has children of 13 or 14 should really consider whether they want to see their children involved in sexual experiments with 17- or 18-year-olds, for example.
I do not want to say anything about the American attack, of course, but I would like to point out that Sudan has now found yet another reason to suspend talks with the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development, the countries surrounding Sudan which are trying to broker peace between Sudan and the south.
Mr President, when I spoke on the threatened war against Iraq in January and February of this year, I called it 'the war of Mr Clinton's penis' .
Mr President, I shall try to be as brief as possible.
Later, on 9 September, the Presidency of the European Union issued a statement on behalf of the European Union condemning the detention of opposition activists, a statement that obviously deserves the Commission's full support.
The European Union's position on Burma will be reassessed in October to decide how the current position might be changed, if at all, as of 19 October.
I should also like to say that the ASEAN forum will definitely be used by the European Union once again to raise the question of political rights in Burma.
I should like simply to emphasise that, apart from our concern over the massacres in Mazar-I-Sharif and other equally dreadful situations, we are convinced that in no way can Afghanistan be considered as applying the law correctly.
As far as the situation in Cambodia is concerned, I should like to say that I fully agree with what Mr Bourlanges said.
I repeat that, regardless of what has been traditional practice, we support this resolution without any reservation.
As far as homosexuals' rights are concerned, I would draw your attention to the following: all Member States of the European Union are signatories to the European Convention on Human Rights; the recent Amsterdam Treaty, in particular Article 6A, stipulates that we must fight all forms of discrimination based on sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, conviction, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Similarly, in respect of the accession of future Member States, it is obvious that these rules will also be applicable to applicant countries.
I am referring in particular to a provision in the Romanian Criminal Code, Section 200, which we hope will be amended as quickly as possible.
We welcome the recently agreed cease-fire, for a period of three months, and we hope that it will be extended, not only in time but also geographically, so that humanitarian aid can reach the people there.
The Commission is not empowered to impose sanctions.
It is up to the Council, and on the basis of respect for our international commitments.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the following 14 motions for resolutions : Floods in China -B4-0826/98 by the PPE Group-B4-0848/98 by the V Group-B4-0854/98 by the GUE/NGL Group-B4-0859/98 by the ELDR Group Floods in Bangladesh -B4-0837/98 by the PSE Group-B4-0844/98 by the PPE Group-B4-0846/98 by the V Group-B4-0853/98 by the GUE/NGL Group Forest fires in Spain -B4-0815/98 by the PPE Group-B4-0839/98 by the PSE Group-B4-0857/98 by the GUE/NGL Group Forest fires in the Union -B4-0827/98 by the PPE Group Forest fires in Portugal -B4-0855/98 by the GUE/NGL Group Forest fires in Greece -B4-0856/98 by the GUE/NGL Group Mr President, the sheer scale of the unprecedented flooding in China has prompted me to put down this motion for resolution expressing sympathy with the people and Government of China.
The entire Yangtze valley and its tributaries have been flooded - a region in which 380 million people live, as many people as live in the European Union.
Thirteen million hectares of crops have been destroyed which would be, I imagine, sufficient food to feed 80 to 100 million people.
I want to impress on the Commission and the Community the importance of showing sympathy and solidarity with China in this horrific disaster and urgently extending what help they can.
Mr President, in my country, the Netherlands, we too have suffered floods on a number of occasions.
In Bangladesh 30 million people are directly affected and 10 million need urgent financial aid.
The Bangladesh Government appealed for $576 million of assistance and many people in the European Union - tens of thousands - have been moved by the graphic pictures they have seen of the devastation in both these countries.
Of course we welcome the fact that ECHO has put in ECU 1 million but it seems less than fully adequate.
The Commission can take note of this and find other ways to give short-term humanitarian aid to both these countries.
I was watching BBC World this afternoon and they had a major report on the situation in Bangladesh.
These are the worst floods in their history and 25 to 35 million people are currently still relatively homeless and without economic sustenance.
There is a major urgent need for short-term aid, and the Union has not given enough to meet the short-term food needs of the population or its medical needs.
The problem must therefore be raised once again at Community level, not merely to ask the Commission for a detailed report on the damaged areas, and not merely to request special aid for the stricken areas, but to pose a broader problem.
Mr President, if I could begin with what our colleague Mr Burtone has just said, perhaps it would be better if fires were not categorised as 'natural disasters' because they are not natural disasters.
This morning we approved a resolution on climate change and one of the sources of CO2 emissions are fires like those that this year occurred not only in Spain and Greece, not only in the south of Europe, but also in Indonesia, Brazil and in many other parts of the world.
I therefore think that measures need to be taken in Europe and in the Member States to improve the Community's forestry policy, and we also need to work on ways of preventing and punishing those who cause disasters of this kind.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the joint motion for a resolution supported by our group, the Group of the European Radical Alliance, we have tabled three amendments on the methods of combating these scourges, particularly through the establishment of a European fleet of water bombers.
As a result, bringing together national resources and making them available to help other countries is becoming a very appealing proposition.
The base of this fleet would be established at the most central point of those areas at risk.
This would result in more rapid, decisive intervention, since we know that the power of the resources used, along with the speed of their deployment, together represent the most important factor in the effectiveness of the fight against forest fires.
These are regional planning issues and questions of protecting environmental wildlife in southern Europe and in the Mediterranean countries because, when it comes down to it, these September resolutions have resulted from the fact that other measures were not adopted in time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again this summer a large number of huge forest fires hit various southern European countries including Portugal.
Mr President, I will not take all my speaking time but I cannot speak with all the voices I have around me, so please ask Members to be a little quieter.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to say that, contrary to the opinion of all those who have claimed that we must set up a complete 'fire industry' to combat fires in the summer, I should like to say that when it comes to Mediterranean forests it is a common mistake to think that fires can be fought in the summer or that fleets of planes or hundreds of firemen are needed.
Here I am speaking of fire disasters because European policy on Mediterranean forests has been a disaster - mainly because of systematic opposition from countries with well-kept forests but also with more temperate, cooler climates than ours.
Forest fires in Greece Mr President, the facts and results of the forest fires in Greece are well known, and are mentioned in the resolution we are debating, which I of course support.
On the subject of the floods in China, apart from confirming the numbers already quoted during the debate, I should like to say that ECHO is already present in China although, as you can imagine, the scale of the disaster is such that ECHO is having to concentrate on certain more priority areas and in particular food and medical assistance to the least favoured.
I should also add that, as part of the relations between the European Union and China and as suggested in the European Parliament's draft resolution, we can clearly cooperate on offering assistance and co-financing studies aimed at identifying the environmental and other causes and finding possible solutions to these disasters.
As far as Bangladesh is concerned, this is another catastrophe of huge proportions - after all, it has affected 60 % of the country's territory and around 30 million people - and there, too, ECHO is involved with humanitarian assistance, in particular in terms of food and public health.
I can also now announce that a task force has been set up by the Commission, involving ECHO, DG I-B and DG VIII, with the task of ensuring the coordination of the European Union's response or, at least, that of the Commission to the disaster in Bangladesh.
As far as the fires are concerned, I should like to say that Community action on forestry, the protection of risk areas and protection measures have always been carried out in close cooperation with the Member States.
I can also say that between 1992 and 1998 around 700 of the fire prevention projects presented by the Member States were approved and received Community co-funding to the order of ECU 84 million.
This cooperation is carried out within the Standing Committee on Forests and, in particular, thanks to the Community system of information on forest fires, a very useful assessment and monitoring instrument which could be more effective had not the budget authority reduced its budget from ECU 23.5 million in 1996 to ECU 16 million in 1998.
I should also like to say that the current regional development programmes include a number of fire prevention measures such as reforestation but, as you know, the Commission does not have the extra funding to assist affected regions.
Last of all, I should like to inform the European Parliament that the Commission is preparing, on the basis of the Thomas report, a proposal for a European forestry strategy which will obviously be presented to the European Parliament and to the Council - at least we hope - by the end of this legislative period.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, I would like to make a brief reference to Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure, before we start debating the reports on the agenda.
VOTES (continuation) Madam President, I should like to ask you something.
I know that Hans-Gert Poettering is very attractive, but I would really prefer people not to take photos in the Chamber.
No, Madam President, since we have rules in this House I would ask you to ask the gentleman in question, or perhaps he can explain himself, what he is doing with his camera.
Madam President, I have made a personal statement on behalf of this side of the Chamber.
Mr Cox wishes to raise a point of order.
Madam President, we agree with the rapporteur.
I would like to propose an oral amendment because we have been misunderstood.
We are not calling for legislation to establish the right to part-time work, but for legislation to regulate voluntary part-time work.
The rapporteur has signalled to me that she agrees to that.
We should be able to reach agreement on this minimal programme.
We voted differently from the majority of our group on the resolution on Kosovo.
We consider that the use of military force requires authorisation from the UN Security Council.
The French socialists, as they said during their election campaign a year and a half ago, are in favour of a general reduction in VAT.
At the same time, we know all too well that we must do everything in our power to ensure that the launch of the euro takes place under conditions that inspire confidence, particularly as regards budget balance.
In my opinion, we must find pragmatic and prudent responses to the problem that are also effective, in other words, implement reductions in VAT targeted at certain goods or services which we believe are essential, as Annex H of the Sixth Directive on VAT provides.
I am thinking firstly of a reduction in the rates applied to CD-ROMs, with a view to both ensuring that this product receives the same treatment as books, and promoting a technology of the future, in which it is essential for the European Union to be competitive.
Such provisions already exist - or, in the case of low cost housing, are about to be completed - in France, but we believe that we need to go even further.
We need to go further in lowering rates, and further in coordination with our European partners.
We are also in favour of the ideas behind Amendments Nos 3, 5 and 6 by the ARE Group that stress the desirability of such a coordinated reduction.
Finally, I would like to say that I support, in particular, the request from the European Parliament to the Commission in paragraph 6 of the resolution of the report by Bernard Castagnède for a directive that would allow reduced VAT rate to be applied to certain labour-intensive services 'on a trial basis'.
But I must add that, in this field, we cannot be satisfied with experiments.
We must move as quickly as possible to a binding legislative text.
The Commission and the Council must be aware of our determination to move forward on this issue.
This report contains a comprehensive proposal to harmonise VAT rates in the individual Member States and for a new common VAT system based on taxation in the country of origin, something we are unable to support.
We agree with these points, not least because the rates of VAT on food, for example, impose the same burden on high and low income groups and thus have an unequal financial impact on different groups in society.
In Denmark, we have a standard rate of VAT of 25 %, which is substantially higher than that in other Member States.
It is therefore important to point out in this context that it appears from a background note from the Danish Tax Ministry to the European Committee of the Folketing on the proposal for a Council directive amending the Sixth VAT Directive that a change in the rules on allowances and the establishment of a system of rebates, with reimbursement of VAT on purchases made in other Member States, 'would involve a loss of yield to the Treasury of between DKR 1 and 2 billion' (Tax Ministry ref. 5.98-221-29).
The motives of protectionism (Amendment No 2 of the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations) and the promotion of certain industries (Amendment No 8 of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left) would be best left out of the difficult process of developing a European value added tax system; otherwise, we would never achieve workable common regulations.
Hendrick report (A4-0202/98) It is by now undisputed that small and medium-sized enterprises, or SMEs, play a key role in the European Union.
I must congratulate our colleagues on these two reports on the fifth annual report of the European Observatory for SMEs and the communication from the Commission on European capital markets for SMEs: prospects and potential obstacles.
SMEs have, in fact, represented this year the greatest source of job creation.
However, unfortunately, the large European institutional investors and the banks are all too often cautious towards small and medium-sized companies that, for them, represent a risk.
The fact remains that the number of European SMEs quoted on the markets is very low in relation to their potential to generate wealth and employment.
Nonetheless, the points highlighted by our rapporteur are fundamental and I hope that the Commission will be able to give them greater consideration.
The report also proposes new and interesting ideas that should be explored, particularly in the fields of the environment and tourism.
Scarbonchi report (A4-0255/98) On reading the fifth report of the European Observatory for SMEs, we are pleased with the structured overall view of SMEs and craft enterprises in the European Economic Area provided by the European Network for SME Research.
In fact, although the report is quite general and includes many topics, we welcome its independent character.
We have paid particular attention to the issues highlighted in the report: general reduction in bureaucracy; improvements to the fiscal environment; professional training; and the development of research and technological innovation.
However, in our opinion, it is essential to state our commitment to respecting the principle of subsidiarity, particularly since the companies involved are, in general, intrinsically private companies.
The managers of SMEs must retain their spirit of enterprise.
To conclude, Mr President, I must say that I am surprised that the report remains silent on the euro, while it devotes a detailed section to the tourism sector.
Despite certain positive elements, my group has not been able to vote for your report, Mrs Marinucci.
That is all very well, but I would also point out that, at the moment, many young women in Europe are saying that they regret having to give up having more children because there is no genuine family policy worthy of the name in Europe.
They voted to ensure that Member States are from now on forced to regulate the right to a voluntary job, anywhere and at any time.
We want part-time voluntary work to be regulated, and to be well regulated, as is the case in my own country.
Other countries also have rights concerning voluntary work, under certain conditions.
I would like to draw your attention to the points concerning parttime work, which, in my opinion, are at the heart of the problem.
Part-time work has represented the most important element of the development of the female workforce in the 1990s.
Today, women hold the majority - 83 % - of these jobs.
Part-time work is traditionally presented as a positive element that allows women to reconcile their professional and family lives.
Contrary to a hackneyed cliché, part-time work is not the choice of women, but most often represents the choice of employers; and for the women who hold such posts, it is a real constraint.
There are very few part-time jobs in industry and very few posts with responsibility; in addition, part-time work is limited to low-skilled jobs and is linked to very specific sectors.
Moreover, part-time workers can only rarely invest in training due to the demands of the working hours involved in part-time jobs.
Mrs Marinucci rightly points out that the 1997 Directive on part-time work does not cover social security and expressly authorises the Member States to maintain national thresholds that exclude so many part-time workers from the scope of the directive.
The rapporteur believes that if we have to encourage part-time work in today's labour market, it is essential that it be extended to skilled jobs, that men be encouraged to take up part-time work, and that training and social security cover be made available to all part-time workers.
The most radical proposal for the promotion of female employment in Europe would be the drastic reduction of part-time work and an overall reduction in working time for everyone, women and men, with full employment for all, without exception.
reasons why part-time work is chosen by companies and in national policies; 3.
relation between part-time work and poverty; 7.
effects of part-time work on pensions and other replacement incomes; 8.
effect on income throughout working life; 9.
Commissioner Monti has shown that the Member States that wanted to keep capital on their territory were subject to market forces and had to reduce taxation on capital by 10 % in 12 years.
And since they had to find revenue to offset this, they increased labour taxes by 20 % during the same period.
I will leave you to contemplate this statistic, linked as it is to the development of information technologies and to the fact that of the four freedoms set out in the Single Act, the free movement of capital, contrary to the wishes of the founders of Europe, was the first to be achieved.
In view of the increase in unemployment among women in Europe, this own-initiative report by Mrs Marinucci is particularly important.
The Committee calls on the Member States to provide legislation on the right to part-time work; the social partners are to conclude a framework agreement on all forms of atypical work and the Commission is to submit a proposal for a framework directive on childcare services in the Member States.
I am pleased that, in implementing the EU's Employment Guidelines, Austria has included, in its National Action Plan for employment, special measures to create equality, measures which are taken into account not only in Chapter IV of the NAP but, in the spirit of the gender mainstreaming programme, also in the other chapters.
However, just now, during the vote on the resolution on Sudan, and more particularly on Amendment No 1 to paragraph 6, I wanted to speak, since someone had at least to point this out for the Minutes, because there is a striking contradiction.
You held a separate vote on the original text and on the amendment.
In addition, you contradicted yourself in that you led the House to vote against the first part of what you called Amendment No 1, that is, the original text of paragraph 6, before holding another vote on this paragraph 6 and allowing it to be adopted.
Such an effort implies the search for new types of employment as well as new forms of employment organization, and orients social protection towards employment.
These firms enable women to reconcile work and family life and, at the same time, provide high quality, affordable services which are largely aimed at lessfavoured groups.
Because of their flexible and intangible nature - and because of the urgent demands of the service sector, in particular social and public health services - the cooperatives can convert jobs that were traditionally done by women alone and which afforded them no social status or financial remuneration, into paid business ventures.
The rapporteur calls on the Committee to produce a White Paper which draws on both the very positive experiences observed in several European countries and the role of gender in these experiences.
The European Commission considers domestic services to be an area in which a high number of jobs could be created.
This model offers an opportunity to many women, particularly in social economy services.
She has stressed the important role that cooperatives and the social economy in general play and will continue to play in job creation and in promoting equal opportunities.
The social economy will enable us to tackle a number of tomorrow's economic and social challenges and will create new jobs that are very often more secure and longer lasting, with better social and working conditions, whilst generating profits that are redistributed and reinvested.
This report points out that the social economy can respond to unmet needs that should be viewed as potential new sources of employment, in particular for women.
It should be noted that the 1998 employment guidelines contains a separate pillar which deals with equal opportunities for women and men.
The approach outlined in this report fits in very well with our employment strategy and, in particular, with the equal opportunities aspect of the strategy.
The report raises the need to adapt European statutes for these sectors.
The Commission will look very closely at the proposal for a study to be carried out on the size and impact of the social economy, the impact it has on employment and, in particular, on female employment.
The Commission is going to draw on the work of the Consultative Committee for cooperatives, mutual societies, associations and foundations established by the Commission on 13 March this year.
The Consultative Committee is, and will remain, one of the Commission's main sources of advice and information on the situation on the ground.
We can also draw on the experience gained from NOW, Horizon, Integra and other such programmes.
We will present a full report on voluntary organisations and foundations next year.
The report will contain recommendations on how to enhance the social and economic role of voluntary organisations and foundations.
A European conference on cooperative entrepreneurship in the year 2000 is going to be held in Bologna on 30 November and 1 December.
It will be very useful because the conclusions of that conference will enable us to decide on the best way to respond to your demand for the White Paper on cooperatives and social enterprises.
At the same time, together with the Swedish National Board for Industrial and Technical Development, we are preparing a conference on women entrepreneurs to be held in Stockholm from 30 November to 2 December next.
So the Commission would lend its support to the establishment of a European network on social economy agencies and it could be managed jointly by the public authorities and by the social economy sector.
The Commission intends to pursue its efforts to promote the development of the social economy in the various policies and initiatives undertaken by the Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
When we voted for this report in the Committee we removed references to two countries, the United Kingdom in recital F and the 'United States model' in paragraph 12.
We are talking here about a sizeable group of families within the European Union.
Although there are also men who, for various reasons, are solely responsible for the care of their children, this report mainly focuses on women who are alone, single, separated, divorced, widowed or who have been abandoned and face life on their own, endeavouring, in the face of a great many difficulties, to give their children a good start in life and in some cases help other family members.
Strangely enough, some of these accusing voices - as we have heard this morning - are those who sing the praises of motherhood, who defend the family as the nucleus of society and on some occasions champion the cause of a wage and social security for housewives, naturally at the expense of social welfare budgets.
This debate follows on from the excellent reports by our colleagues Mrs Marinucci and Mrs Colombo Svevo, who have clearly outlined the situation of women in relation to employment, the difficulties they face in terms of training, the lack of an affordable childcare infrastructure, discrimination in gaining access to jobs and the need for partners to fulfil their responsibilities as regards childcare and housework.
For this reason single-parent families need specific help and attention as well as the support of governments in general, even though some of these women might have found jobs.
I hope that the Council of Ministers for Social Affairs, which is meeting on 5 October, will incorporate the conclusions of the House in its decisions, as the single mothers on whom this report concentrates need action to be taken urgently.
We realise, of course, that it is primarily up to the Member States to fulfil their responsibility; the social partners must also do more for single mothers.
However, the European Union also has a great deal of responsibility in this area.
Those who then become single parents drift very quickly into a situation where they survive on social benefits and find it very difficult to escape from this.
There are still large gaps in this area in the European Union.
Paragraphs 16 and 18 propose working towards joint custody for parents in the case of divorce.
They experience psychological, economic and social difficulties, which call for a well-focused mix of policies as different as the situations concerned.
The report lists such possible measures, and I shall not repeat them.
I would recommend Amendment No 1 tabled by my colleague Mimi Kestelijn to paragraph 19.
We need to use structural measures to ensure that they can play an active role in society.
But we are counting on you to ensure that many single mothers are given opportunities through the Structural Funds.
It is very comprehensive and has a vision about how Member States and the European Union could help the position of single parents, who are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society.
That is to say there is an element of compulsion in the UK now: you either accept training, education or work or you may have your benefits cut off or reduced.
He has cut the AFDC programme and limited it to two years.
Finally, this is the sixth report I have spoken on today on behalf of the Green Group.
Perhaps you could ask you services to check whether this is a record.
Mr President, the situation of many widows and widowers in Europe with young children in their care calls for a necessary progression in our legislation in order to help them.
For divorced women or men caring for children, the situation is also very difficult and must be looked at; the law must be changed to take account of the different situations.
But I cannot allow it to be said that there is no longer a family model and that all family models are equally valid.
Mr President, Mrs García Arias, I am very pleased to approve your report, but in discussions on family policy we almost always make the mistake of discussing the rights of mothers and even the rights of fathers, but not the rights of children.
I believe that children brought up by single mothers have exactly the same right as children who have two parents - and they must have this right - to be brought up, looked after and cared for by their mother.
I would recommend that all Member States do the same.
I should like to thank all those who have contributed to this debate.
Member States have different ways of looking at the role of the state in economic and social life, the family's place in society and its rights and duties, the roles of men and women in the family and children's rights.
Community policy on equal treatment for women and men does not contain a specific component for single parents but it has a crucial impact on their situation, especially with regard to the reconciliation of work and family life, a challenge central to the whole range of social issues.
Changes in the composition of the labour force, new forms of work organisation, the restructuring of social protection, changes in the distribution of caring work between women and men, all have a very important bearing on the lives of single parent families and, in particular, single mothers.
The Maternity Directive, the Parental Leave Directive and the Part-Time Work Directive are all good examples of the European Union's commitment to supporting both women and men in their role as parents.
We paid particular attention to that when ministers and interested groups came together, particularly in Belfast and then in Innsbrück.
The 1998 employment guidelines are important here because they give a very important impetus to the objective of reconciling work and family life which should benefit all parents.
The social and political situation has undergone profound changes in the past decade or so.
New family patterns, new concepts of the role of men and women have emerged.
The European Union has an important role to play in identifying the similarities and the differences in the way the Member States react to these changes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Mr President, first of all I welcome this report we are discussing from the Commission.
The main problem with control mechanisms within European Community waters is driven by the fact that we have excess fishing capacity in our fleets.
The Commission argues quite correctly that effective monitoring is only part of the overall picture and that the excess capacity in the Community fleets results in the problem I have just described.
I am sure that today will not be the last time we will discuss the problems which arise concerning effective monitoring of the Common Fisheries Policy.
Factors which are important in ensuring the effectiveness and acceptance of the monitoring system include: involvement of fishermen's associations, access to national data in suspicious cases, effective networking of monitoring agencies in the various Member States, and, in particular, equal treatment.
Mr President, today's fisheries debate is the first we have had in the House without our friend Allan Macartney.
In its report the European Commission identified existing weaknesses.
For example, there are problems in standardising the measurement of engine power between the Member States.
In addition, the report provides further constructive ideas for an even more effective monitoring of the fisheries policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, measures to monitor the application of fisheries policy will only have tangible effects in ensuring the exercise of responsible fishing which duly respects stocks if they are incorporated in a much broader series of practical measures for the sector.
In my view, what happened can only be explained - of course, it cannot be justified - by the mistrust that exists regarding the effectiveness and transparency of monitoring measures.
Because, not only are incomes declining, but there is growing suspicion about where fish really comes from; people do not understand, for example, nor do they readily accept that it is legal to catch 12 cm horse mackerel in the Mediterranean, but not in the Atlantic where they must measure 15 cm.
We should also help coastal states to exert their rights of control.
Mr President, as the rapporteur rightly points out, the European Parliament has for a long time stressed that the effectiveness of the common fisheries policy depended to a large extent on improved monitoring.
It is also important to involve the fishermen as much as possible in the drawing up and definition of monitoring measures, which, as far as possible, should not just be thrust upon them.
The first amendment I tabled to this report with my colleague, James Nicholson, is aimed at underlining the importance of ensuring that monitoring is fair.
A strategy for improving fisheries monitoring firstly requires strong political will and then adequate human and material resources.
They are: a lack of transparency between the Member States, and a lack of cooperation often within the individual Member States themselves.
I noticed what Mr Provan said about action against the Member States.
The powers of inspection are poor, and the Commission's work will be much more effective if, in addition to their recognized right to dispense with giving advance notice, Community inspectors could gather information more freely with a view to establishing any shortcomings in the national control systems.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 8.45 p.m.)
