Mr President, I am sorry, I forgot to sign the attendance list yesterday but I did take part in the debate and I voted as well.
In recent days we have been giving 'Mr CFSP' some thought.
I have my doubts about the value of that proposal, but I do believe you have really succeeded in giving this European Parliament, as its President, an image of pugnacity and wisdom.
Votes Mr President, after the meeting of the Committee on Budgets efforts were made to find a solution to this issue and I wish to read the following oral amendment to add to the justification of this particular budget line: ' The reserve may be released during the course of the budget year if the agency proves to the budgetary authority that the available funds have been fully executed according to the terms of the work programme and that further means are necessary for operational purposes.
I hope the outside world will be aware that some people on the right in this House, under intense pressure from people outside this institution, particularly from some elements of the Commission, ... ...
I asked him if the European Commission would be acting in line with both the spirit and the letter of the resolution we adopted here on 19 September 1996.
The Commission President confirmed that it would.
It was a bad vote, because its effect was to vote away a large slice of this House's credibility.
We made it clear on 19 September, with 30 votes against, what we in this House insist upon.
The European Commission, with whom we have a code of conduct and whom we trust to honour that code of conduct, has spoken to this Parliament with two voices: the President's voice of reason and the firmness of resolve not to accept our entreaties on Turkey on the part of Commissioner van den Broek.
It was because we did not want the MEDA credits to be taken hostage - this being a problem which relates solely to relations between the European Union and Turkey - that we opposed the blocking of those credits.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left, I want to express my sorrow about this development.
And I want to ask Mr Martens, if he is consistent with his vote, to vote against the Lalumière report on human rights.
Mr President, before the vote on block 7, I should like to intervene pursuant to Rule 125 to request that you declare one of the amendments in that block inadmissible.
The amendment in question is No 253.
These credits are placed in block 4.
A decision taken by the European Parliament and the Council on 23 July 1996 is cited, but that decision does not relate to an amendment of the legal basis, and could not have that effect.
Mr President, may I state very clearly in this House that the vote taken on this was within the interinstitutional agreement and fully in line with the financial perspectives.
According to the Rules of Procedure I have the final decision on admissibility.
Parliament has just adopted the Community's budget for 1997, bringing to a conclusion a budget procedure which at times proved particularly difficult.
I suppose it could hardly be otherwise given that budgetary discussions are currently every bit as difficult in most of our Member States.
The Union's budget satisfies the requirements of budgetary rigour, applying to all the Member States.
At the same time we have been able to take account of a number of priorities shared by both arms of the budget authority including, in particular, research and the Northern Ireland peace process.
In fact some of the crucial provisions of the budget you have just adopted were significantly and directly influenced by the discussions the Council held with your delegation before the two readings of the budget.
Admittedly, the longstanding problem of the legal basis has not been resolved and I regret that.
We must all work together to improve the budgetary dialogue procedure which, by its very nature, will continue to be as difficult as it is essential.
I do not believe that the difficult 1997 budget is a once-off exercise.
In these circumstances tensions will inevitably grow rather than diminish between the three arms of the budgetary authority and particularly between the Council and Parliament.
It only remains for me to thank you and all of those in both Parliament and the Commission who have done their utmost to bring the Union's budget procedure to a successful conclusion.
Mr President, it might have been better if the representative of the Council presidency had been present at the political debate on Tuesday, then he could have answered these questions.
On behalf of the Committee on Budgets, then, I should like to state that Article 203 gives the Council presidency the right to decide whether the maximum rate was retained in the budgetary procedure after the second reading of the budget in the European Parliament.
The Council President has made a declaration on this, and has confirmed that the total figure adopted by Parliament is accepted by the Council.
I therefore wish to state on behalf of Parliament that the budget will be implemented in accordance with the budgetary procedure pursuant to Article 203, as has happened throughout the period of almost 40 years during which the Community has existed.
Mr President, I asked for the floor before this vote.
But I do not believe it has the power to move ahead in the timetable and anticipate decisions that have not been taken.
We also voted, in the comments on the budget, in favour of the distribution of ECU 100 million in the 'research' reserve.
Mr President, as the President-in-Office of the Council said, having come to the end of difficult but important year, I would like first to thank colleagues on the committees with whom I have had the opportunity of working.
I should like in particular to thank the budget secretariat.
In a few minutes' time I shall be flying off to the European summit in Dublin.
When you elected me as your President two and a half years ago, you did me the greatest honour and you also handed me the most difficult task in our Parliament's gift.
As President of our Parliament, I have had the opportunity to learn some priceless lessons.
That willingness, ladies and gentlemen, is often much greater than we suspect, and we are wrong not to make better use of it.
That diversity is not our weakness, that diversity is Europe's strength! (Applause) I have made more than 40 visits to the regions, and have enjoyed meeting many Members personally in their constituencies and at work in their regional organizations.
And I have learned something: the hopes people associate with Europe, and with the European Parliament too, are far greater than the scepticism with which Europe is viewed.
What people expect are firm convictions and clear messages, and that is what we have to give them. (Applause) After all, we in the European Parliament - watcher over the Commission, co-legislator of the Union, forum of the nations, elected representatives of 370 million people - we have good reason to be more calm and confident.
Let us stay that way, because that is our strength! (Applause) You have placed great confidence in me over the last two and a half years.
What I have done over the last two and a half years may sometimes have been right, may sometimes have been wrong, but it was always done in the belief that I was serving the interests of cooperation between our peoples in the European Union and in our Parliament.
Madam President, one minute to pay tribute to the respect and esteem in which my group holds Klaus Hänsch as President of this Parliament is really not enough.
The Socialist Group who nominated you, Mr President, are proud of you.
You have been a strong, determined, radical President committed to bringing our Parliament closer to its people.
We know that in this House that will not always make you very popular, but we respect the fact that you have achieved much in trying to bring this Parliament closer to its people.
I repeat, we in the Socialist Group, and I am sure all of us in this House, are proud of you.
This is not anywhere near what I would like to say and I will certainly pay tribute to our President, Klaus Hänsch, at a later time and in our own way in our Group, but I want to end by saying that there have been some very notable moments in this House during the last two-and-a-half years.
As indeed I did yesterday when you reminded us in this House - and let us remind people over there - that what we are fighting for and what you stood for and defended was the role this Parliament and this Europe can play in the defence of human rights, in the defence of democracy, in the defence of humanity all across this world.
That is not an easy theatre in which to operate, as I know from experience, but there too you have represented us most excellently.
I think you have been a brilliant president of this Parliament.
Madam President, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I would like to say to Klaus Hänsch, as his twoand-a-half year term of office comes towards and end, that we believe that he has conducted the business of this House firmly but with great fairness.
Madam President, President Hänsch, in the absence of our Group President, Alonso Puerta, may I thank you for your work over the last two and a half years.
And we believe relations between our group and yourself have been cordial and friendly.
Madam President, President Hänsch, the European Parliament is not an easy parliament to direct.
Admittedly, we were not always satisfied, but then the rules themselves are not always satisfactory.
You have also been a firm president - some would say very firm, perhaps meaning too firm.
And that is why, on behalf of our group, I offer you our respect and our thanks.
I just wonder why it is that Parliament cannot adopt a principle that always works so well elsewhere: never change a winning team.
Madam President, I have no wish to make President Hänsch miss his plane or to steal time from colleagues who still have work to do.
I hope everyone is clear about this.
Votes (continuation) Madam President, I welcome the debate on the report by my colleague Michèle Lindeperg, which is to take place at 12.15 pm.
Mrs Berès, I have two things to say in reply to that.
That will enable us to vote until 12.40 p.m.
Madam President, it saddens me greatly that we cannot vote on this report today.
After all, we were all trying - the committee and Parliament - to have a European Parliament vote on these two reports on this particular day, the fiftieth anniversary of UNICEF.
Reports that are not voted on now will be voted on this evening at 6.00 p.m.
Madam President, it seems to me that all the political groups agree that the Zimmermann and Casini reports are very important and topical.
Mrs Todini, I offer my thanks in advance to all Members who will be present this evening to vote on these reports which are indeed very important.
I tried to speak before we started to vote on this report but was unable to.
Mr Kerr's report has not been translated into Swedish; only about 30 % of the text is available in Swedish.
This is a problem of distribution rather than translation, because the text does exist in Swedish.
She is right; some of the text is in English.
Madam President, this problem has arisen because the report was originally drafted before Finland and Sweden joined the European Union.
Madam President, I have to say that the honourable Member is quite correct.
This text was drafted in September 1994 when Sweden was not a member of the Union.
This is an extremely important debate for the future of social Europe and we should continue with the vote now.
The document should be available in the languages of the Members present.
Naturally, I regret the fact that our colleagues failed to point this out to the registry service before the vote, which would have saved some time.
Madam President, you raised a very interesting principle.
Ladies and gentlemen, I do assure you that I deeply regret the fact that this was not pointed out to us before the votes.
Secondly, this puts us in a very uncomfortable position.
If we vote this evening we might get an inconclusive result.
We are required to debate this report, which is an institutional report - this is the annual debate laid down in Article K.6.
The President-in-Office of the Council is present, having been invited to attend this debate at this point in the agenda.
Mr Brinkhorst's report on the draft budget contains certain fundamental points with which I should specifically like to express my agreement.
The principle of zero budget growth seems to me both opportune and prudent.
Regarding the application of the MEDA programme to Turkey, I voted in favour of Amendment No 279 proposed by the Committee on Budgets.
The reply by the President of the Commission fails to reassure me that the Commission does intend to comply fully with the spirit and letter of the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 19 September.
Finally, I welcome Parliament's vote in favour of Amendment No 45 relating to measures to combat violence against children, adolescents and women.
The protection of children and the weak must be a priority of the Union if it is to fulfil its function as a repository of civilization.
Those on the right of Parliament have bowed to political pressure from the European Commission which has always operated a double standard in its dealings with us on the subject of Turkey.
So there is no guarantee at all that the spirit and the letter of the resolution of 19 September 1996 will be upheld.
Those on the right of this House have thrown away Parliament's credibility and at the same time demolished the powerful strategy which we were able to deploy in favour of human rights in Turkey.
This proposal now forms the basis of the review by the working party, together with the ideas presented earlier by Klaus Hänsch.
Seas, lakes, rivers and tourism are cross-border, although the Council and the Commission do not always remember that, especially as regards tourism and bathing water quality, a priority in this respect.
I will be voting for the Eisma report on a Council directive concerning the quality of bathing water.
This report does three things.
One of the key reasons this report will be resoundingly adopted is because of the efforts of organizations like Surfers Against Sewage who have demonstrated so comprehensively that the present directive and its lax implementation by the British Government has cost hundreds of millions of pounds in health-care, social and lost production costs in the UK.
I thank them for their efforts.
Collins report I declare that the Portuguese socialists in the European Parliament voted for Amendment No 13 calling for the setting of Objective 7 in the Structural Funds to introduce co-participation and financial assistance for the replacement of water mains systems and distribution networks, a vital process for reducing the lead content of drinking-water and whose overall costs are enormous: one year's Community budget at European level, 200 billion escudos in Portugal's case.
In the framework of the work carried out on this directive, we now await the initiatives of the Commission and the discussions in Council so that this error can be rectified.
The proposal for a directive which is before us takes account of the changes that have taken place since then, both technical and scientific.
Not a difficult question to answer if we confine ourselves to its transposition in the Member States.
Finally, I associate my vote with those of my French socialist colleagues on the matter of lead piping, asking for a period of adaptation.
Directive 80/778/EEC relating to the quality of water intended for human consumption established, for the first time, a number of quality requirements for potable water throughout the Community.
Bearing in mind the technological and scientific advances achieved since then, and pursuant to the conclusions of the European Council in Brussels in December 1993, it was appropriate to revise this directive, hence today's debate and vote.
Our main objections are to Amendments Nos 46 and 47 (Annex 1, Part B, note 3).
Between 75 % and 95 % of the necessary expenditure will relate to the replacement of pipes in dwellings and will therefore be borne by the householders.
It goes without saying that these provisions, if they were to be implemented, would inevitably entail an increase in water prices - an increase which, in the case of France, would obviously be damaging to the local authorities which are already on the point of financial strangulation.
I strongly deplore the fact that the report on the proposal for a directive concerning the quality of water intended for human consumption has been adopted as it stands.
Next, it is very contradictory on the part of the European Commission to propose a text which provides for a very low parametric value and, at the same time, a very long period for complying with it.
For all these reasons, it seems more sensible to proceed by stages.
I therefore strongly deplore the fact that the amendment proposing a five-year period within which the Member States would be required to comply with the parametric value of 25 ìg/l for lead concentrations in water was not adopted.
It is illogical to have 50 amendments from a specialized committee and then table another 100 amendments later, in the House.
That makes Parliament's work very difficult and puts the final outcome of this vote at risk.
We should have concentrated on just a few basic amendments demonstrating a clear political position in this Parliament.
The Commission's proposals should have been much more precise and backed by legal and technical documentation.
Zero risk does not exist.
The Lomé Convention should be maintained so that we retain a platform for dialogue between North and South, between rich and poor countries.
I think that that would be a way of promote the defence of human rights in the world.
Christodoulou report It is extremely important that those European States which wish to become members of the European Union be allowed to do so, provided they take a democratic decision on the issue.
The intention behind enlargement must be to strengthen the cohesion of the group around shared democratic values, not just to create a bigger and bigger, more and more liberal economic union.
The signals reaching us on the eve of the European Council in Dublin are not encouraging.
These precautions are all the more necessary in that the 'acquis communautaire' is now much more substantial than it was before the previous enlargements.
Today, the European Union is in no condition to say 'yes' to the candidate countries, and, unfortunately, the reasons for that are not entirely budgetary.
If this had been the preoccupation in the past then countries like Ireland, Greece, Spain and Portugal might not have been admitted.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe are fledgling democracies.
Enlargement will not be possible unless the EU reforms its agricultural and structural fund policies.
The Union should not demand unilateral adaptation of the applicant countries' economic and social policies.
The report describes the problems involved in enlargement.
The report states that it will not be possible to finance enlargement without reducing agricultural and regional political support given to Sweden and other EU countries.
The report is dominated by the fears of the southern countries which regard eastward expansion as a threat to the continuing social and economic cohesion of the EU.
I believe it is not yet too late to ensure that, through a fundamental reform of the Structural Funds towards greater flexibility and efficiency, the new Member States, too, can participate in the principle of social and economic cohesion, thus giving full play to the political advantages of a pan-European Union.
On the other hand, today's debate comes a few days before a major deadline for the IGC.
This year, we can strike a more positive balance as regards the number of decisions taken and the legal instruments used.
In particular, I should mention the competence of the Court of Justice for three conventions, including Europol: the 'extradition' Convention, the joint action on 'racism and xenophobia' , and the measures to combat the drugs trade, the traffic in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children.
But all this cooperation increases my pessimism about the overall record of Title VI, since the goodwill of the presidencies is not in doubt.
First, the lack of clear political objectives.
The decisions, having run the gauntlet of demands and refusals for each Member State, are eventually adopted a minima , and often bear much more resemblance to a list of common practices and provisions rather than dynamic, positive advances towards a common legislative apparatus with respect for human rights.
Fourthly, the dubious and ambiguous distribution of powers between the first and third pillars was seen again this year with the presidency's move to present a joint action on freedom of movement at the time when Parliament was studying the three so-called Monti proposals, in the context of the first pillar.
Finally, my last observation is addressed to the Commission, though it is inherent in the functioning of the third pillar.
The Commission has the right of initiative in certain areas only, and then not exclusively.
Let me remind you of the hopes expressed in this connection by Parliament in March 1996.
If that were to be the case, Madam President, our forthcoming annual meetings on progress in justice and home affairs will be in grave danger of becoming a ritual funeral ceremony, with no specific benefit to the everyday life of the European citizen, although the field is one that concerns him very closely.
I also welcome the fact that the European Parliament notes that progress has been made in 1996 towards the decision-making procedures foreseen under Article K.3 and that progress has been made in cooperation with the US, with the CCEES, with the Mediterranean countries and with Russia.
However, I also note that the European Parliament, as in previous years, is critical in its proposed resolution of a number of features connected with the third pillar.
Those who claim that the third pillar is not working do not take into account (a) the real achievements that have already been made; and, (b) the fact that the third pillar has been in operation for only three years - the environment in which the third pillar works.
Fundamentally governments wish to see that these matters are being dealt with in a manner which is consistent with their constitutional values and legal traditions.
This does not rule out very intensive cooperation which can and must be carried out between the Members of the European Union, in particular in areas which relate to the core issues close to the citizens.
I am thinking here in particular of the fight against drugs and organized crime and of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in general.
At its meeting in Madrid on 15 and 16 December 1995 the European Council asked that future activities in the field of justice and home affairs be focused on a programme of priority areas.
On 14 October 1996 the Council adopted a resolution laying down the priorities for cooperation for the period from 1 July 1996 to 30 June 1998.
The Council, concerned to ensure the transparency of its proceedings, also took a decision to publish in the Official Journal acts and other texts adopted on asylum and immigration matters.
I recognize that the Council has adopted some legal instruments which are not specifically mentioned in Article K, such as some resolutions or recommendations.
During the last twelve months 23 legal instruments were formally adopted, among them five conventions, eleven joint actions, two decisions, two common positions and three resolutions.
Among the most significant achievements was the formal adoption of the convention relating to extradition between the Member States of the European Union, the protocol on the interpretation by way of preliminary rulings by the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the convention on the establishment of a European police office and the protocol to the convention on the protection of European Communities financial interests and the convention on the use of information technology for customs purposes.
Without dwelling on all the achievements in the field of justice and home affairs during 1996, I would like to mention a few.
This was part of an integrated approach covering all three pillars.
During the course of 1996 competent bodies have started active implementation of the 66 measures that are mentioned in the report of the Group of Experts on Drugs approved by the European Council in Madrid.
In terms of intra-EU actions, progress was achieved through the resolution and report on the prevention and detection of illicit cultivation and production of drugs and through a resolution and report on drugs tourism.
The fight against drugs also leads to measures in the fields of judicial cooperation, including in particular the resolution on the sentencing of serious drug-trafficking.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council reached broad, political agreement on a joint action relation to such issues as a commitment to enhance our cooperation in the fight against drug addiction and a commitment to align our laws and the lawenforcement practices to the extent necessary to combat illegal drug-trafficking.
At its meeting on 19 and 20 March 1996, the JHA Council recorded the agreement of all delegations, with the exception of one delegation which entered a parliamentary reservation, on the draft declaration on organized crime.
In addition to the convention relating to extradition, to which I have already referred, the Council adopted on 22 April 1996, a joint action concerning a framework for the exchange of liaison magistrates to improve judicial cooperation between the Member States of the EU.
The JHA Council on 28 November 1996 had an in-depth discussion on ways and means to intensify the fight against organized crime.
The presidency is presenting a discussion document to the European Council in Dublin on enhancing the Union's capacity to tackle organized crime.
The first measure was an Irish presidency proposal to extend the mandate of the European Drugs Unit to cover trafficking in human beings.
I would like to stress that this is a very significant achievement made under the Irish presidency and I would like here publicly to salute the work of my Belgian colleague, Justice Minister De Clerck, who has made great efforts to reach a political agreement on this very important action.
To a great extent this joint action has also been inspired by the resolution of the European Parliament on the same topic and I want to pay tribute to the Members of the European Parliament who have so forcefully highlighted this area of crime and pressed so effectively to have action taken.
The joint action on racism and xenophobia was adopted in July 1996.
The first protocol to the Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests was drawn up by the Council and signed by the representatives of the Member States on 27 September 1996.
The draft convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the European Communities or officials of the Member States of the European Union was transmitted to the Council by the Italian presidency in January 1996.
The draft was drawn up on the basis of the above-mentioned first protocol to the convention on the protection of the European Community's financial interests.
Concerning free movement of persons, the picture of the activities carried out within the third pillar in 1996 would be incomplete if I did not mention, at least the most important achievements in the field of external frontiers, visas, asylum and immigration.
An important step for the better integration of third country nationals residing legally in a Member State has been realized in March through a resolution on the status of those persons.
In June the Council adopted the recommendation on combating illegal employment of third country nationals.
Of particular importance is the political agreement the Council achieved on the joint action on a uniform residence permit.
As to asylum and refugees I should mention, in particular, the joint position on the harmonized application of the definition of the term of refugee under Article 1(A) of the Geneva Convention, which will increase the legal security in this difficult field.
Furthermore, work on a convention concerning the establishment of a system for the collection, storage, exchange and comparison of fingerprints of applicants for asylum, EURODAC started under the Italian presidency and has considerably advanced under the Irish presidency.
As you know, such an instrument will significantly facilitate the implementation of the Dublin Convention which should be ratified by the last Member State in the near future.
Let me just quickly say a word on the financing of Title VI activities in 1996.
The Council has adopted three programmes: GROTIUS, which provides for the exchange of magistrates, SHERLOCK, which provides for training in false document identification, and STOP, which provides a programme to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children.
If one compares the new system with the previous one, one finds that all the criticisms of your institution have been addressed.
The meeting tomorrow of the European Council will address issues such as the fight against drugs and organized crime, which are crucial to the European citizen, with a view to practical and workable solutions for the future, in cooperation with the Commission and the European Parliament.
It also takes a long time to include new preparations on the list of banned substances.
This is why I have initiated work, together with the Member States, to see if a more flexible and effective system can be developed.
One area which has taken a great deal of time and energy is the fight against the traffic in people.
I decided last year to produce a discussion document on the trade in women.
This document on the trade in women has been sent to both the European Parliament and to the Council of Ministers.
I participated in the Stockholm conference on the sexual exploitation of children for commercial purposes.
My colleagues in the Commission have taken this action on board and have asked me to coordinate all of our activities in this area.
I wholeheartedly support the appeal by the presidency to the Member States that they ensure that the Europol Convention is ratified during 1997 and I hope that this appeal is supported by the Members of this Parliament.
Based on a working paper, I have introduced discussion in the Council of Ministers on the need for more similar systems.
I am also working on a convention on immigration regulations.
The Commission has an important role to play in the Union's contacts with other countries.
These issues will play a large part in the Commission's remarks and, as a result, in the Council of Minister's decision to open negotiations.
Structural dialogue at political level has come in for much criticism.
Our friends in Eastern and Central Europe have complained that they do not consider our Ministerial meetings to be sufficiently well structured.
This compromise was arrived at by the Commission partially as a response to criticism from the European Parliament for the way in which the 1995 budget was allocated.
Madam President, next year will be a decisive one for the future of the Third Pillar.
The Commission is firm in its view that a radical overhaul of the Third Pillar is necessary.
We have proposed that all subjects apart from police cooperation and criminal law is transferred to the First Pillar.
The Intergovernmental Conference is now moving into a decisive stage.
As an example of this, the Commission watched with great interest the lead taken by Chancellor Kohl and President Chirac the other day.
Our people will see concrete results in this area.
I naturally hope that we will also have the support of the Members of the European Parliament in this.
Finally, I would like to say a big thank you to the European Parliament for the good cooperation that we have enjoyed during 1996.
The Council's programme for the next two years has not even been notified to Parliament.
Madam President, the situation in the field of justice is indefensible.
Our people expect to see proposals but the right of veto in the Council makes our tools less effective and prevents action and development.
The Intergovernmental Conference must clarify goals and give the Council the legal tools.
The President of the Commission must take on the role of political leader, and take this role seriously in order to give a totally different kind of support to Third Pillar issues and the fight against drug trafficking.
As someone who is well aware of the difficulties, I would like to conclude, before the new year starts, by saying thank you for all that has already been achieved during 1996, and by urging the Commission and the Council to maintain the highest level of expectation in the fight against crime and drug abuse so that we can achieve the required level of security in Europe.
In my opinion, not even communitization would lead to any real progress, except at the risk of judicial chaos, which is something we must avoid as we move towards a European area of justice - a real European area of justice.
Madam President, notwithstanding everything the Council of Ministers and the European Commission have said, the inescapable fact is that in this area the European Union is hidebound by bureaucracy.
Of course we realize, Madam President, that the reason for this is the structure of the third pillar as enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty, the structure of decision-making.
Madam President, the European Commission claims to have insufficient staff.
Madam President, as Michèle Lindeperg has emphasized in her report, there is no doubt that we must turn to the Intergovernmental Conference to eliminate the inconsistencies and distortions in matters relating to the crossing of borders, the control of immigration flows and the right of asylum.
But that Conference needs to bear it clearly in mind that it is the very young, the poor and the underprivileged who have to pay the heavy price of this inconsistency.
Increased openness and public accessibility is not just a general democratic requirement but something which makes corruption in society more difficult.
Looking back over the past year, I do not really know whether it is possible to say that openness and public accessibility has increased in the Union or in its Member States but, at least, I have great hopes for the Intergovernmental Conference in this respect.
Madam President, in view of the threat posed by organized crime, the European Union's citizens ultimately measure the Union in terms of whether, and to what extent, it can develop efficient machinery to counter international organized crime.
The second possibility is that Parliament's urgings should be heeded, so that communitization replaces national legislation where necessary, as for example in the case of asylum policy and the control of the external borders.
The third point is that we should aim at more intensive contacts with the countries in which organized crime originates - I am thinking here particularly of the eastern countries - and organize police cooperation between Europol and those countries to enable us to achieve greater security in the interests of the Union.
Madam President, there is a lack of movement in the area of justice and home affairs.
There must be a more equitable allocation of refugees, a more effective fight against crime and tougher measures must be taken against the traffic in drugs and people.
At the same time, all this must take place together with the Member States, within the framework of the effective working programme which Commissioner Gradin has just mentioned.
I shall not be involved next year, because after preparing this resolution for three consecutive years I am now passing it on to a colleague.
Should we not take steps to ensure, in the December part-session, when this report is due to be considered, that this very important debate should no longer be scheduled at the same time and place as it has been for the last three years, to prevent its being treated in a necessarily somewhat inattentive manner?
If you could call the attention of the presidency to this point for next year, I should be grateful.
Thank you, Mrs Lindeperg.
Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed.
Madam President, I just want to intervene to thank the Members who have participated in this debate for their comments.
Thank you, Minister.
Madam President, I am very grateful for that.
There is a great deal in it which ought to be strongly supported by this Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I should like to speak simply to raise the case of Joseph O'Dell, who is under sentence of death and whose case is being followed not only by the Italian Parliament but also by many human-rights organizations.
Thank you, Mrs Colombo Svevo.
Four weeks ago I felt strongly that we should have an urgent debate on this very subject.
Four weeks ago very few of my colleagues said that this debate would take place.
The fact that it is taking place today shows the concern from all political groups and all nations in this Parliament at the way in which our deregulated Sunday has affected the life of many ordinary people.
Low-paid workers are often forced to work long hours at very low wages without any enhanced supplement for working on a Sunday.
This resolution reminds the people of Europe that Sunday has a special place.
Let us have a rest, a good rest, at least once a week on a Sunday.
Mr President, I contest the European Court of Justice decision to annul the second sentence of Article 5 of the working time directive, which specifies Sunday as a rest day.
However, in practice Sunday is the only day of the week when the majority of people in our society are not in the workplace or at school or otherwise occupied.
In the EPP we have put the family at the centre of our thinking.
To remove Sunday as a day of rest puts yet another obstacle in the way of successful family life.
Sunday as a weekly day of rest is a tradition to which the vast majority of the people of Europe are attached, and it adds to the social and cultural aspects of our life for most of the people of the European Union.
It is a day when parents like to be with their children, when grown up children visit their parents; and in closely knit communities it is the day when people can find time to visit the sick, the aged and the lonely.
My resolution has been incorporated into the joint resolution and I would ask the House to give it its full support.
The entitlement to a day of rest must be a legal entitlement and must be one that can be enforced.
The freedom of coexistence of these calendars is just as important to safeguard as the right to a day of rest between working weeks.
Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party regrets the judgment.
The Group of the European People's Party now calls upon the Member States, when transposing the Directive into national law, to recognize Sunday as, in principle, a day of rest.
For all these reasons I think we should keep Sunday as the public day of rest.
Sunday rest is not just an essential, quantifiable factor in the lives of a high percentage of our population, but also an important element of our working and family lives.
Mr President, naturally I fully endorse the position expressed here on behalf of my Group.
Hence our plea in Amendment No 1 that account should be taken of this in setting shop opening hours.
Thank you, Mrs Piha.
Members will recall that the Court annulled the provision that the minimum weekly rest period to which workers are entitled under the directive shall in principle include Sunday.
I would like to explain briefly that the inclusion or annulment of this provision in the text of the directive makes no practical difference.
That is because the provision itself was essentially declaratory, so employees still have the right under the working time directive to a minimum uninterrupted rest period of 24 hours per seven-day period, in addition to the 11 hours daily rest.
However, following the Court judgement it is now absolutely clear that decisions on whether or not to legislate on this matter are for each Member State to make in the light of the circumstances prevailing in that particular Member State.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, after Sunday as a day of rest we come to the ongoing unrest in Belarus.
The violation of democratic principles means that we must necessarily put our partnership agreement with Belarus on hold and freeze its funds from TACIS, apart from those intended for democracy programmes.
Mr President, may I strike what may be a mitigating note in this debate, certainly not to condone in any way the actions of the dictatorial President in Belarus.
The Socialist Group fully supports the condemnatory nature of the remarks made.
However there is more than a hint of heavy-handedness in this debate with regard to a country which is small enough not to have to be appeased because it is neither politically nor economically important to the European Union.
The powers that the President has are not that much different from the powers enjoyed by President Yeltsin, yet Yeltsin is the person so often to be appeased.
Once again this morning, this House voted for appropriations for Turkey, a country with a decades-old record of poor human rights.
Belarus was more damaged by the Chernobyl accident than any other country.
We are talking about a very poor, a very damaged country.
Mr President, I was one of those who was selected at very short notice to go as a member of the European Parliament's ad hoc delegation to observe the referendum and the partial by-elections which were taking place at the same time for the Belarus Parliament.
I would add, to underline that, that the polling stations for the referendum had been opened for at least two weeks before 24 November, which was when the voting took place.
They are no longer allowed to use their chamber, they are not allowed to use their offices, and the staff who helped us as late as 24 November are now sitting at home.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to stress that the European Commission is seriously concerned about the grave deterioration in the political situation in Belarus and we agree with the general analysis of the facts that has been presented.
And although the isolation of Belarus is undesirable, questions can legitimately be asked about the type of measures that can influence the development of this country.
In this difficult and complicated context, the Commission has already taken steps that lie within its powers.
I would remind you that payment of the second tranche of a loan of ECU 25 million for the balance of payments has been suspended.
In addition all the programming missions under the TACIS programme have been cancelled.
At the same time, Commissioner van den Broek asked for effective priority for projects geared progress to consolidating democracy and projects of a social nature.
With the support of the Commission, the Presidency-in-Office - the Irish presidency - has taken the initiative of sending a fact-finding mission to Belarus.
The actual terms of reference for this mission will be defined shortly and the Commission's view is that this mission should involve both sides in high level political meetings.
In addition, the Commission was recently involved in a meeting of the troika with President Lukaschenko, which he himself requested, during the recent OSCE Summit in Lisbon.
As you can imagine, advantage was taken of this opportunity to deliver a very clear and very critical message about the current internal situation in Belarus.
Thank you very much, Mr Marín.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
Joint programmes by the Commission and the Honduran Government must be implemented quickly to put an end to these abominations.
Mr President, we are certainly all aware of the human-rights situation and, in particular, the conditions suffered by juvenile detainees in Honduras.
We need to know what has been done for them, what is going to be done for them in the future, whether they have been released and, in any event, whether every possible effort is being made to protect their physical and psychological well-being, by, for example, setting up special juvenile prisons.
This resolution is an indication of our continuing concern but it is clear that President Reina and the government have already made some progress in dealing with problem and this has, in fact, been recognized by Casa Alianza.
In addition, progress has been made between the European Commission and the Honduran authorities in a project which will assist young people at risk in Honduras.
Mr President, the various resolutions presented on the incarceration of children with adults in Honduras make reference to the United Nations conventions promoting the welfare of children.
We have all heard recently that those who are supposed to take care of them are violating them, and that, according to ILO reports, child labour across the world involves 200 million children.
But even so, as Mr Newens said, unless there is a change in economic policy to allow these children to be raised in a normal family environment, we expect there will continue to be cases for us to denounce here.
So I believe we should take advantage of this occasion to condemn, yet again, the havoc wrought by poverty, marginalization and inequality in the world.
It also aims - and I emphasize 'aim' because we would prefer this to have been done already - to promote flexibility in administrative procedures concerning children, and extend the scope of the non-governmental organizations involved in preventive work with children, as well as increasing their capacity to provide shelter for children at risk.
Because of all this, and to express our hope that this problem - still a burning issue in Honduras - will soon be resolved, we support this joint motion for a resolution.
Mr President, quite apart from the generally unsatisfactory situation in Honduras, the treatment of minors in prisons is a particular cause of concern.
Mr President, just yesterday evening we were talking about minors in this hemicycle.
We also spoke of our concern about the fact that many young people in Europe live in the shadow of poverty.
Parliament's reaction and the way its presidency deals with this resolution must serve to prevent circumstances like these occurring anywhere in the world.
Romania Mr President, this Christmas it will be seven years since the overthrow of President Ceausescu in Romania.
Ceausescu is responsible for many appalling acts, but nothing was worse than his pronatalist population policy.
With the election of a new government is Romania, there is now greater hope for radical change.
But today we should not delude ourselves that the social problems of Romania can be solved overnight.
Despite the very real barriers which still prevent the effective use of resources, my recent visit to Romania showed me very clearly that such programmes are extremely worthwhile and beneficial.
I would hope that today this Parliament will send a clear message of solidarity with the young people and the children of Romania.
I would hope, too, that the European Commission will find some way of increasing the support to the programmes which will help children and young people as Romania begins in earnest its progress towards a closer relationship with the European Union.
Mr President, I shall follow on immediately from what was said earlier.
There is a new government, and Romania today offers new hope for the future.
The new cabinet represents precisely what this House has been calling for over all these years.
Mr President, the situation of children and young people in Romania continues to cause concern, even though undeniable progress has been made in recent years.
The priority must be given to those children and young people - all too many of them, alas - who have no hope of finding new homes and have therefore been abandoned to their sad fate.
To my mind it would have carried more conviction if we had taken the opportunity this morning of expressing our outrage in more than just words.
As a Member of this Parliament, I am ashamed to speak about human rights in Turkey, because I regard it as hypocritical and to some extent a deception of European public opinion, to come here this afternoon and yet again pass a resolution severely condemning the Turkish government for its violation of human rights, and specifically the rights to freedom of speech and freedom of the press, while this morning, just a few hours ago, we voted against the very mechanism that would have constituted pressure on Turkey to implement human rights.
It is a sad and disturbing feature of our political life which we have learned to live with.
Therefore, however much the government of Turkey may resent it, a resolution of the kind we are debating here today is quite unavoidable.
The time is surely coming to call a halt, and seriously question our relations with Turkey, especially the institutionalized and contractual character of those relations.
After all, there is no escaping the fact that our regular displays of indignation in recent months and the more or less drastic sanctions we impose have virtually no effect on the behaviour of the Turkish authorities.
Two days ago we played host here to three Turkish publishers who between them represented 65 % of the daily press.
Croatia Mr President, people are taking to the streets in their hundreds of thousands not only in Serbia but in Croatia too.
If Croatia claims to be a democracy it must honour the results of the communal elections and appoint a mayor for Zagreb.
The Council of Europe admitted Croatia as a member, but on condition that its demands for pluralism were met.
Mr President, I don't believe I ever drew any comparison between the regimes in Belgrade and Zagreb.
Having said that, I should add that I have never been one of those who close their eyes to the shortcomings and mistakes of the government in power in Zagreb, even less so today when there is no longer any direct threat to Croatia.
It is for these reasons that we call upon the Commission and the Council to demonstrate the utmost rigour and determination in dealings with Croatia, to ensure that that country respects freedom of expression and renews the broadcasting permit for Radio 101.
They could operate 101 and others as well.
The composition of the Telecommunications Council which awards this frequency is certainly no guarantee of the representation of civil society in Croatia.
Unfortunately, the opposition votes meant that the Croatian parliament adopted this proposal by the government.
Regarding the situation of the media in Croatia itself, I should simply like to say that there is wide variety of printed media but that I am very seriously concerned -and this is where my criticism is aimed - that the bias of Croatian television in favour of the government is simply unacceptable.
Mr President, the delegation of Alleanza Nazionale intends to vote in favour of the joint resolution on freedom of the media in Croatia and would like to express its solidarity with the journalists and employees of the radio station 'Radio 101' , who have had to suffer the prevarications and arrogance of a power system that uses the very same methods as were fashionable in Tito's Yugoslavia.
Mr President, the delegation of Alleanza Nazionale hopes that the trust Europe has placed in Croatia, and in Slovenia, will not be betrayed by dishonest behaviour that is quite unacceptable of countries that want to call themselves European and hope to become a part of the European Union.
So I read that newspaper, and I think there are many newspapers that would not have the confidence to attack their government the way Globus does.
There are other papers, too.
But it would be wrong to judge Croatia as it has been judged so far.
So I hope that, with this resolution, we shall add power to the arm of those democratic forces in Slovakia that are fighting for their completely normal constitutional rights, in the interests of the democratic future of Europe.
Mr President, we are seriously concerned by the latest events in the Slovak Republic.
I do not want Parliament to adopt resolutions based on either ignorance or unsubstantiated assertions.
We want to have a proper, positive dialogue with Slovakia, because we want them in the European Union, and we do not want them to be cast out as pariahs.
First, the resolution on Honduras.
Naturally the Commission congratulates Parliament on this resolution which highlights the effort that is being made by the Honduran authorities to ensure that juvenile detainees are separated from adults in the country's prisons.
The expert mission that visited Honduras at the beginning of 1996 to study the aid options was able to assure itself of the Government's determination to take appropriate measures to separate children from adults in the prisons and to provide specialized institutions so that these children will be safe from physical abuse.
The Commission is confident that President Reina's government will continue to seek solutions to the situation and adopt the measures necessary to prevent any repetition of minors being locked up with adults.
At this point I would like to mention that the Honduran Government recently approved a children's code and our project will also directly facilitate awareness and application of this code of child protection.
As regards Romania, the Commission is fully aware of the problems Romanian street children have recently been facing.
In response, the Commission has already included this problem of street children in the indicative multi-annual programme for Romania and, of course, a decision was taken to provide aid specifically for this purpose.
We will continue to provide support for the improvement and reform of the child protection system in Romania through counterpart funds, to which ECU 21 million has been assigned, arising from the sale of food aid between 1990 and 1996.
On Turkey, as Members are aware, the Commission's report of 9 October, on the progress of relations with Turkey since the entry into force of the Customs Union, already highlighted the deterioration in the human rights situation in Turkey throughout 1996.
The report ended with a clear call to the Turkish government to start taking positive measures again, with a view to improving the human rights situation and deepening the democratic process.
Apparently some of the provisions of this bill have been leaked, and they have aroused strong protest in Turkey, as has already been mentioned.
As regards the resolution on Croatia, I would like to reiterate what was said at the recent conference on promoting the peace process in former Yugoslavia through the communications media.
Radio 101 was represented at that conference, held in Brussels on 29 November, in fact it was represented by its director.
Over the last two years the Commission has contributed a total of ECU 9 million to various projects benefitting communications media.
This assistance to the independent communications media in former Yugoslavia will continue in 1997 with an allocation of ECU 10 million.
A legal framework was drafted in Croatia with the cooperation of the Council of Europe, but the changes that have occurred recently in relation to Radio 101 demonstrate that there is still much to be done.
The establishment of future relations between Croatia and the Union will be linked, among other things, to respect for the freedom of communications media, and now that the European Union is working to establish relations with the countries of the south east of Europe in the context of the regional focus, the position of the communications media in those countries will need to be taken very much into account.
And in this respect confirmation of this broadcaster's temporary licence is awaited from the Croat government, and in our view that means the station should be granted a permanent licence.
I want to inform the European Parliament that during the meeting of the European Union-Slovakia Association Committee, just yesterday, a statement was made on this case on behalf of the European Union.
The statement says that the European Union has noted the events of 4 December in the National Council of the Slovak Republic, culminating in the expulsion of a Member of the Council against his will.
The association committee recalls, once again, the criteria of association established in the Copenhagen statement and in the European agreement between the Union and the Slovak Republic, and hopes that the National Council of the Slovak Republic will take note of the concern of the European Union.
The Commission has also been informed that the case has been referred to the Slovak Constitutional Court, which will have to rule on whether the decision of the Slovak Parliament was constitutional.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
The humanitarian values on which our international law is founded are routinely violated in Algeria.
I should like to see Europeans, and all those interested in the future of Algeria, establishing a presence through the press, through the NGOs, or even, as far as the European Union is concerned, on the occasion of the negotiation of the agreement with Algeria, a physical presence in that country and intervening between terrorism and its inevitable repression.
Mr President, as we all know, the Algerian situation is giving serious cause for concern.
The Algerian government must not confine itself to eliminating acts of violence by the security forces.
The result of the referendum is not going to solve the problem, even if the 'yes' vote was as high as 85 %.
With a turn-out of less than 30 % - a long way short of 85 % - and a 'no' vote registering 70 % the Kabylie is certainly the most flagrant example of an ethnic split, though not alas the only one.
Mr President, I want to express the Socialist Group's support for this joint resolution on the very complex issue of Algeria.
We are also concerned about the terms in which the last referendum held in that country was approved.
There are aspects which have a decisive impact on democracy and human rights.
We know that Algeria's problems have to be solved by the Algerians themselves, but in maintaining relations between the European Union and Algeria and in the new framework for those relations, Europe must not forget that its own essence is based on democracy and respect for human rights, and it cannot turn a blind eye to a situation which flouts the most elementary standards of universal democracy.
Mr President, the referendum on constitutional reform held in Algeria on 28 November must pave the way to parliamentary elections.
Unfortunately, the referendum has not put an end to terrorist violence, which has just claimed many more victims near Blida.
The struggle against terrorism by the forces of order must go hand in hand with initiatives to encourage the opening of a genuine dialogue with all the forces of democracy, so as to arrive at a political solution enabling the Algerian people to establish a democratic state under the rule of law.
My group welcomes the opening of negotiations between the European Union and Algeria with a view to an association agreement.
To prevent that agreement being founded solely on free trade and economic competitiveness, it must first respect Algeria's economic and social choices, and secondly take due account of the opinion of the political, union and professional organizations.
Mr President, I have the impression that Parliament views the situation in Algeria rather differently from the European Commission.
I wonder, Commissioner, if you are aware that the turnout at the referendum was probably only 30 to 35 %, or so it is said by some Western European news agencies?
I wonder if you are aware that not a single copy of the new constitution in Algeria on which the citizen was required to vote in this referendum was previously available to him?
Since then the country has been trapped in a spiral of reciprocal terror.
And I fear that the approval of a woolly resolution in the European Parliament will do nothing to resolve the problems in Algeria.
And I would just like, without the slightest illusion, to take this opportunity of making two observations.
Zaire and Rwanda bear witness to the responsibility of my own country in this respect.
But the bombs in France remain small beer compared with the enormous demographic, cultural and political time bomb which the millions of nonEuropean aliens on our continent represent.
Since the presidential elections in November 1995, the European Union has been urging the Algerian Government to bring politics back to normal, through dialogue between all the parties opposed to violence.
The five resolutions Parliament has tabled demonstrate the importance you attach to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in Algeria.
We share your concern, in terms of both the general framework of the new Mediterranean policy and the association agreement we are negotiating with Algeria.
Let me make three comments in this regard.
At the bilateral level, when we begin the coming negotiations with the Algerian government with a view to signing a new association agreement on the basis of the mandate from the Council of Ministers, the Commission will also have to speak of respect for democratic principles and human rights, because that is central to the new EuroMediterranean policy.
I want you to know that we shall be facing a very difficult task because, as the majority of Members of Parliament have pointed out, the situation in Algeria is complicated and difficult, and our position - I am confirming what some Members who spoke earlier have said - after the referendum and regardless of any judgement that may be expressed on its value, after the presidential elections and before the general elections to the national parliament in the first half of the year and the local elections in the second half, is that national dialogue can actually make the coming year a time of hope for a normal situation to be at last restored in Algeria.
But as I have said, the situation in Algeria is highly complex and difficult.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
It is important that the 83 000 detainees currently being held in Rwanda's overcrowded jails have a fair trial.
Epidemics and AIDS are on the increase in this part of the world.
I call on my fellow Members to make a serious commitment to solving this crisis, including by promoting an international conference in the Great Lakes region - a conference involving all the countries concerned.
Something like this has happened to the international community in the Great Lakes conflict.
We find ourselves with a mouse of 300 soldiers, useless to the refugees, after obtaining authorization from the Security Council to launch a humanitarian intervention, after obtaining a common position from the Council of Ministers supporting that intervention, and after achieving, for the first time in history, coordination between ECHO and the CFSP to bring in the necessary resources - specifically the release of ECU 10 million on the same day as the common position was adopted.
But I also want to inform her of my concern, because the decision to contribute ECU 2.5 million to the special United Nations fund to finance the participation of African states in the multinational force has not been implemented.
The NGOs are willing to do all that; the role of the Council and the Commission is to facilitate their task.
Secondly, the Council of Ministers needs to take political measures: promoting a regional peace conference, supporting democratic processes in those states which still have an anti-democratic regime... (The President interrupted the speaker) Mrs Sauquillo, I am not going to stop you speaking, but I do ask you not to rush.
You have used up your time, but if you rush you threaten the health of the interpreters who could die of breathlessness.
I repeat, political measures by the Council of Ministers should include promoting a regional peace conference, supporting democratic processes in all the countries in the area - and that means withdrawing support from the anti-democratic regimes which have been propped up for years by our own countries.
It is also necessary to lay the foundations for a balanced distribution of power between the various ethnic groups, with a system to protect minorities, and control of arms sales in the region, with European Union cooperation to make the controls effective.
And, finally, I want to ask the President of the Commission and the President of Parliament to raise this matter in their speeches at the Dublin European Council at the end of this week.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's resolution is a rehash and rather than speaking for one minute I am requesting one minute's silence in memory of the thousands who have perished in Kivu as a result of criminal negligence, in the first place by the United States and in the second place by the Union. (The House rose and observed one minute's silence) Mr President, I think we have several pieces of evidence before us.
The first is the weakness of the European Union's preventive policy.
If I am not mistaken, we have adopted 23 urgent resolutions in the course of this year, predicting and condemning what was going to happen in Rwanda and the Great Lakes area.
The fact is the measures that have been taken have had no effect.
But the strangest thing is that we are also seeing weakness in something we have always been quite good at: implementation.
Instead we dump responsibility for fulfilling the humanitarian and military role on the voluntary agencies.
Finally, Mr President, we are now right in the middle of another problem, the civil war in Zaïre.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true and it has been said that we have been warning of this for months and have been speaking out so that Commission and Council would hear us.
We have said that following the genocide in Rwanda new and very serious armed conflicts were brewing in Central Africa.
But today we feel ourselves obliged to intervene once again, because what is going on now, the war, the persecution of refugees in Eastern Kivu which is now moving into the interior of Zaire forces us to speak out again.
This is a sacrosanct principle which we as the European Union should uphold worldwide.
It is not primarily you I am addressing, Commissioner, but rather the Council and Member States, because it is they who must take the decisions.
I am glad to see you here, Commissioner.
We have no complaints about you, quite the opposite, you have shown courage and insight in recent months.
It was not just dangerous, but laughable too to think that things would come right of their own accord in Rwanda, and in Burundi and Eastern Zaire too.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, should like to share in expressing this Parliament's delight at the presence in the House of Commissioner Bonino, whose courage, perseverance and determination have endowed the European Union with a position and presence that other institutions have been sadly lacking in this crisis.
The staleness of the debate is, indeed, apparent from the fact that tactical elements alone now dictate events even in supranational institutions such as the United Nations Security Council - basic political considerations are a thing of the past.
That, I believe, is one of the great problems that regrettably affect both the United Nations Security Council and the Council of the European Union.
The African tragedy, not just that of the Great Lakes but the tragedy of many other parts of Africa, has its origin in the policy pursued by some Member States of the European Union.
So we bear a special responsibility, and this Parliament has expressed that responsibility more than once in the past and has called more than once for that responsibility to be accepted.
Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, without in any way wanting to cast doubt on the value of this debate, I should point out that it is a repeat of the debates we held a few weeks ago.
I am also glad to hear a debate on the humanitarian aspect, which is very valuable in itself, because it may help to improve our actions and our effectiveness.
Well, what has happened?
That has nothing to do with what you have been doing, but the reason we have slid into this disaster is partly because those stocks of weapons existed in the camps.
In any case, I believe it is true to say that we have been denouncing this state of affairs for two years and have indeed stressed the need for disarmament, separation, etc.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
So I should like to make a proposal which we might perhaps take to heart in the second half of our electoral period.
In the circumstances, clearly, a Member would have been entitled to complain if the votes had resumed earlier.
That being so, I see no point in making matters worse, and I feel we should move on very quickly to continue this morning's votes.
Madam President, in accordance with the initiative taken on the first day of this sitting of the European Parliament, when we asked for this report to be removed from the agenda, we now ask that it be referred back to committee for the same reasons - reasons that have been strengthened by the tone of the debate that has taken place.
We have discussed this sufficiently, we have had a thorough debate in the House, and now we have to take a decision so that we can exert an influence on the Commission.
I hope that we may now be able to succeed in the House where we failed in committee. (Parliament rejected the request for referral back to committee) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my sincere thanks - starting with you, Madam President, who seem to have a much clearer view of things than I could possibly have imagined.
It does us all credit, even though some of us may detect a hint of wormwood in the cup.
At the same time -and this I see as particularly important - we have given our new partners in central and eastern Europe a signal, through this resolution, as to what they can do jointly with us.
But, Madam President, I insist, No 425 has just voted.
The light went on.
We shall have it checked. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, you very kindly said that you would check the allegation of the abuse of the principle of one person one vote.
The culprit is sitting in his seat now and I should like to know what you are going to do about it.
The check must be carried out by the technical services.
Madam President, I am really sorry but there is an abuse going on.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are able to carry out a technical check to see whether there is a card that managed to vote all on its own, because that seems to be what happened.
Madam President, I am looking forward to your report because the occupant of 424 is involved in the implications of your report.
The reform which was carried out in 1992 must be continued and built upon as soon as possible.
In Baden-Württemberg, where I come from, this is not the case.
Prices have previously been reduced by more than 30 %!
The bull premium is only being paid for 90 animals, and here again the reason was a substantial drop in the intervention price.
A farmer who farms 80 hectares has to pay twice as much in health insurance premiums as one who farms 20 hectares.
This indiscriminate allegation is an insult to farmers in my country.
No account is taken of the agricultural, economic and social differences that exist between the various CCEES, nor between them and the EU Member States, yet these differences need to be assessed in reforming the CAP.
Berès report (A4-0389/96) I shall be very brief.
On the de Brémond d'Ars report, we voted against that report because it is, in effect, going to hinder completely the possibility of liberalizing the postal service, which is not in the interests of the consumer and not in the interests of the internal market.
In its vote on the excellent report by my colleague Pervenche Berès, Parliament has sent a clear signal to the European Commission on the definition of universal service, more especially in the telecommunications sector.
We need the broadest definition possible that can validly reflect a model of society for every European citizen; that is becoming more than a necessity at a time when the Commission is presenting its communication on general interest services, the starting point for thoughts about the future of public services.
Through a strong concept of universal service we shall succeed in maintaining certain principles that are dear to us, such as tariff equalization and universal access to the service.
The planned liberalization of telecommunications on 1 January 1998 will, like all such liberalizations, give rise to fears regarding universal access to the networks and a demand for guaranteed justice in the use of the service, the universal service.
It is essential that Parliament should clearly express its commitment to political regulation of the forces of the competitive, liberalized market.
It is essential that the Commission should take due account of these comments and, in the future, draft proposals for directives whose primary interest will be not the industrialists or promoters but the consumers.
This report on telecommunications forcefully reasserts the need to improve the European public service at the same time as telecommunications are liberalized in our information society.
For that reason, this sector requires clear regulation which in all cases will bindingly commit it to objectives such as equality, freedom and solidarity.
de Brémond d'Ars report (A4-0388/96) We completely share the view that the Commission ought to retract its proposal.
The current situation where only some countries have a competitive postal sector is unsatisfactory.
This notice is no good to anyone, not even to the European Commission, since it contradicts the terms of the proposal for a directive.
National postal companies have operated in a monopoly situation for a long time.
But even within this sector there is currently a entrepreneurial spirit and it is important to develop this.
The report now under discussion in the European Parliament runs contrary to this view and there is a risk that it will mean that competition will not be encouraged.
Parliament has given its opinion on several occasions, upon which it has sought to show the difference between the public utility and others, in particular the social and economic impact that post offices have in peripheral, rural, suburban or urban areas.
Remember what we did on 9 May 1996.
We also put back the idea of opening up the post to competition until after 2003, after the adoption of a new directive.
But these decisions have caused problems for most of our governments!
So here we are today, confronted with a second proposal, a 'notice' which seems to us incompatible with our earlier vote!
In this connection, the question also arises of whether the profitable direct mail sector is to be opened up or not.
In this case, the Irish compromise proposal in the Council suggested that if a Member State had a total volume of cross-border mail exceeding 20 %, that sector should not immediately be opened up to competition (a rule which would affect, among others, Luxembourg, Ireland and Greece).
So there are still many problems to be solved before liberalization can be addressed.
That is why we also vote in favour of this report which is wholly in line with the progressive attitude the European Parliament usually adopts in connection with human rights.
In this report, which is central to Parliament's work, the Commission's activities are reviewed to determine what importance it attaches to human rights.
This is precisely what the Commission needs for the high-speed build-up of the free trade area involving all the CIS States, although there are a great many human rights violations in certain countries that argue against this economic preference.
Zimmermann report (A4-0393/96) The Commission of the European Union bears a heavy responsibility for the Union's inertness over the issue of protection for minors, because until only a few months ago it was answering questions from Members of the European Parliament, by saying that the problem fell outside the scope of its competences.
The Zimmermann report, after the dramatic events in Belgium which are probably the tip of the iceberg, provides for a series of important actions.
Among other things, it is necessary: for children's rights to be incorporated in the revised Treaty, -for the Commission to propose special action to deal with sex tourism involving children and child pornography, -for the problem of protecting children from information technologies to be addressed, -for the European Union to contribute to the creation of a European Centre for neglected children, -for special action and care on behalf of children who come from third countries, -for a bundle of measures to be adopted to support the family, -in the case of children who have gone astray, for education and rehabilitation to be offered instead of imprisonment, which changes them into antisocial elements, -and for discrimination to be eliminated, whatever countries it may exist in, against children born out of wedlock, who should be made equal to other children in the eyes of the law.
Recent events in Belgium, and in France too, have given new force to a debate that has too often been conducted very timidly in the European Union - the debate on paedophilia.
The violation of children's rights is the greatest possible affront to human dignity.
Let us make sure we remember that today, because they will not forgive us tomorrow!
More than ever before the protection of minors is currently an issue in both international and national discussion forums.
The fundamental principles which might have been stated in the resolution are these: 1.Children are entitled to be protected and guided, preferably by both parents together in a family environment.
Helping parents in their difficult task of bringing up children, enabling them to provide understanding and affection - especially in those many cases where the cohesion of the family is at risk or has been destroyed - this is the right kind of policy on children!
The suggestion that an independent European centre should be set up to coordinate searches for missing children is certainly a good idea.
In particular, the recklessness or egotism of the adult world is causing children in the various countries of Europe to live in more and more precarious family situations, giving rise to suffering, pain and lack of confidence in life when a child is deprived of the loving, educational presence of its parents.
These are still horribly fresh in our memories.
Member States will have to work together to tackle these cross-border problems in the interest of children.
The terms children, young people, minors, are used interchangeably in an unstructured manner and in many respects the report is concerned more with young people than with children.
The only clear and consistent factor we find in the report is the desire for a policy on children at Union level.
The new framework for this legislation needs to restore the position of the child at the very heart of the adoption principle.
Furthermore, many couples and single people cannot adopt these children.
The Casini report on improving the law and cooperation between the Member States on the adoption of minors recommends simplifying the adoption procedures.
We should, indeed, adapt the legal framework to the upheavals through which our society is living, in order to enable children to have a home and to ensure they are protected.
This means that the rules drawn up must concentrate primarily on the interest of the children and only secondarily on the rights of the would-be adoptive parents.
Thus the aspiring parents must be subjected to careful vetting and the child must wherever possible be placed with a family in its own country of origin.
A much-discussed point is whether adoption should be open only to families or also to single parents, persons living together in communes or homosexuals.
But we wish to give our view on this, since the point is very important to us.
After weighing the above considerations, and in the light of the vote on the various amendments, we voted in favour of this report.
Kokkola report (A4-0238/96) Mr President, the wetlands are quite obviously one of the richest and most diverse parts of the European Union's heritage.
I am still convinced that the proper conservation of the wetlands goes hand in hand with their ecological and agricultural use, retaining their fundamental features.
I should emphasize that the Committee on Fisheries, through my colleague Dominique Souchet, also adopted the same conclusions.
They are part of our rural heritage.
The Commission communication offers an excellent analysis of the problems facing these 'sensitive' zones.
I congratulate the author of this report on the exhaustive analysis of the Commission's communication on the protection of the wetlands.
The study stresses the importance of protecting the wetlands as part of a global water policy.
It is the duty of the Member States to establish a register of wetlands following the principles set out in the Ramsar convention.
The Committee on Fisheries has proposed the creation of a wetlands section under the PESCA programme.
Together with my colleague Edouard des Places, I tabled an amendment (Amendment No 3) which recapitulates some of the conclusions of the Agriculture and Fisheries Committees.
This approach seems all the more dangerous in that it is camouflaged behind a screen of making a better contribution to the integration of Europe.
Unfortunately, the actual text of the resolution gives the lie to the pessimistic finding on which its logic is based, since two full pages are devoted to a list of decisions taken by the Council, in 1996, regarding cooperation in police and judicial matters.
It is abundantly clear from this that when the Council believes there is a real need all the governments concur, and sometimes concur very quickly, as demonstrated by the signing of the convention on extradition.
Is it reasonable, for example, to maintain that when governments fail to agree on a draft text proclaiming freedom of movement within the Union for third country nationals this deadlock proves that the third pillar is not working properly?
Well, the resolution that the European Parliament has just adopted lays itself open to this precise criticism, because one can detect in it, underneath the desire to communitize everything, the desire to use this future power in the most latitudinarian manner.
In point 20, for example, we read that this House favours the communitization of 'policy towards third-country nationals' , then in another place we find that it wants to apply the principle of freedom of movement 'to citizens of third countries lawfully residing within the territory of the Union' .
The combination of these two approaches very clearly demonstrates the course which the Commission and the European Parliament would like to steer if they were given additional powers.
As for those matters which, for the time being, would continue to be more the province of intergovernmental cooperation, I believe it to be essential, within the framework of the IGC, to reach agreement on two important changes: 1.the creation of a new legal instrument which would have a value equivalent to that of the directive in the Community legal system; 2.the application of a general flexibility clause which would enable those Member States that so wish to move forward in particular areas while, at the same time, allowing the other Member States to rejoin them when they consider themselves ready to accept the objectives and procedures agreed upon by the first group.
However, my colleagues and I reject the resolution in areas in which the author attributes the lack of progress to the principle of the unanimous vote.
I consider that Sweden's proposal for a multiannual working programme to combat crime and the Swedish contribution to the EU programme of action against drugs are excellent examples with which to demonstrate that it is possible to achieve cooperation in justice and home affairs at transnational level.
But as Christmas is just around the corner...
The Member concerned shall be entitled to be heard by Parliament before the vote.
An electronic vote shall be taken without debate.
I believe we should take these matters very seriously, applying Rule 110 and taking into account Rule 117, both of which you quoted virtually verbatim.
The results of the voting on the last four reports were very tight; the difference was often no more than one or two votes.
Madam President, as I recall it the issue was not a roll call vote but an electronic vote.
But there was no intent on my part to commit an offence because, once again, as you could see for yourself, our machines were taking time to operate and I really did think, in all good faith, that I had not voted.
Mr Pasty pleads guilty.
But it does stretch our credulity even at this time of the year.
Madam President, there was a vote on my report as well, which really was very close - and I have taken another careful look at it.
I have to say that, in all honesty!
Mrs Zimmermann, I have proposed that this matter should be referred to the Bureau next January.
There is nothing more I can do immediately.
Madam President, you are aware that some of us take this European Parliament and its commitment to democratic values and practice very seriously indeed.
Mr Hallam, the inquiry has been held and the results are clear.
Mr President, I have been in this Chamber a long time, in fact I have been waiting for about six months for this report to come before the plenary, and I do not want to miss it at this stage.
In presenting the report on parking cards for disabled people on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism I wish to declare a personal interest.
The aim of the recommendation is to achieve reciprocal recognition of parking cards for disabled people throughout the European Union.
The proposal recommends a standardized card which would be instantly recognizable and eligible in all EU countries.
This was the subject of a recommendation as long ago as 1977 by the European Conference of Ministers of Transport; so that in itself the principle seems to carry a very wide agreement both inside and outside the Member States of the Union in Europe.
Firstly, in order to ensure that all Member States agree to the new card, the committee is suggesting that it is issued in addition to existing parking cards for disabled people already available in each country.
The committee's proposal is that the European card and existing national cards could be used in parallel.
When it comes to the information to be included on the card, the committee sought to ensure that there is sufficient information about the user to avoid abuse, but at the same time, to leave out any unnecessary information which could lead to a disabled person being singled out for an attack or burglary.
I hope the Commission can accept Parliament's proposals for improving a welcome initiative and that the Member States for once will act quickly in agreeing and implementing this recommendation, which will be a very useful step in the development of a people's Europe.
For many years people with disabilities have petitioned Parliament and this report is based on such petitions.
In that sense, I cannot claim it to be my report.
I would recommend that all Parliament reports be available in such a format.
In order to achieve these perfectly legitimate aspirations these rights will have to be enshrined in the Treaty.
We know there is a commitment on the part of the Commission to improve this.
There are approximately 37 million disabled people in the EU, about 10 % of the Union population.
Disabled people experience direct and indirect discrimination in all areas of their daily lives.
People with a visual impairment can rarely obtain printed material in a format they can access: that is, either braille or tape.
Deaf people often do not have the right to use and be served in their native language, which is sign language.
However, the EU can add value through exchange programmes and has a role where the competence to legislate is at Union level.
Disabled people are, in theory, covered by the general citizenship provisions of the Treaty on European Union.
A non-discrimination clause would not transfer new competences to the European level but would mean that where competence to legislate is at European level the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of disability is fully respected.
At present, when discussing harmonization and standardization of legislation in the creation of the single market, we have no legal obligation to consider the needs of disabled people.
This means that many draft directives in the area of single-market harmonization are initially published without due consideration to the access needs for disabled people.
We saw that very clearly when the Windows 95 program was brought in: it was accessible to people with visual disability right from the start, and that was as a direct result of an extremely good campaign in most of our countries but particularly in the United States.
However, many disabled people report exclusion from the political process and are disenfranchised in the most fundamental aspect of a democratic society: the right to vote in person on the basis of common information.
In some Member States laws make it more difficult, or even impossible, for certain disabled people to vote.
The submissions I have received highlight abuse and violence against disabled people, including disabled children, particularly in institutional settings.
I hope my other colleagues will pick up the last few remaining points I wanted to make.
Since my wife went blind in 1975 I have become all too familiar with the routine discrimination against the disabled.
The first is the problem of subsidiarity.
The rapporteur has already pointed out that non-discrimination against disabled people is primarily a matter of constitutional law and the simple legislation of the Member States.
That makes it easy to understand why the Dublin II document contains a proposed new Article 6a for the Treaty on Union, laying down a general prohibition of discrimination which also extends to the disabled.
At the same time, the context of this proposal reveals the agonizing inadequacy of the provisions on fundamental civil rights contained in the Treaty on Union.
Mr President, we are holding a joint debate on two reports from two different committees, because both deal with the rights of people suffering from disabilities, and for that reason this joint debate makes sense.
First, the report on the draft Council recommendation on a parking card for disabled persons, as it is entitled.
As long ago as 1977, twenty years ago now, the transport ministers declared themselves in favour of reciprocal recognition of parking cards.
Twenty years later, the Commission has tabled a recommendation that has no binding effect on the Member States.
Not only that, but the only concession refers to the respective national or regional parking concessions of the Member State in which the disabled person would like to park.
The Committee on Petitions initiated this report because of numerous petitions received about the disregard of disabled people's rights.
The basis of this policy must be codecision for those concerned and the human rights approach, as it is also represented in the UN standards.
I think this is a very important example of how legislation can be framed to help people with handicaps.
It needs to be highlighted that the current socio-economic framework implies a serious increase in unemployment and also a reduction in the public funds available to meet the needs of these people.
In Spain, 24 % of the population is unemployed and this rises to 70 % for people with disabilities.
In the private sector only 0.2 % of jobs are held by people with disabilities, while in the public sector this is limited to 2 %.
Mr President, I believe the public is looking to the Intergovernmental Conference for a clear affirmation of the principle of European citizenship, not, of course, based solely on the hypothesis of constructing Europe in terms of the free movement of goods or the freedom of markets, but based mainly on the recognition of human rights.
This is why, on behalf of the Green Group, I say there is a need for a non-discrimination clause, on the ground of disability, and for this clause to be included in the revision of the Treaty on European Union, so that it can become a legal base for social programmes and measures to combat discrimination.
I believe that this combination of proposals could finally open up the prospect of, and I repeat, not only a trading Europe but also a Europe that puts its citizens and their rights first.
Evidence from disabled people shows that they are denied the rights taken for granted by non-disabled citizens, such as free movement, access to goods and services and, in some cases, even the basic right to vote.
For example, in the UK, the 1995 Disability Discrimination Act does not even give all disabled people a basic right to nondiscrimination in employment, transport or education.
The provisions that currently exist, in employment for example, start to look somewhat ineffectual when one realizes that they do not apply to 96 % of companies, that is those employing less than 20 staff.
The rights of disabled people are best served in the European context by the inclusion of an anti-discrimination clause in the next Treaty and by specifically addressing the issue of the rights of disabled people in all legislative deliberations and proposals.
Disable people should be fully consulted in the development of all proposals affecting them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at present there is in fact no parking card for disabled people which is valid throughout the EU.
Well, this is the point we have reached: just a few days after this year's European Disabled People's Day we are finally getting round to addressing a subject which is very serious in both senses of the word.
The introduction of a Community model of parking cards for disabled people has a very personal aspect, with direct effects on the quality of life for every individual concerned.
For both these reasons, the introduction of a parking card which will be valid throughout the EU must be welcomed in principle.
Unfortunately, the legal instrument chosen - the recommendation - has no binding effect on the Member States, meaning that the Community model will exist in parallel, as a supplement as it were, to the national parking cards that will remain in force.
Nevertheless, it is a limited step in the right direction, so that the Group of the European People's Party votes in favour of the report with all its amendments.
There is a Community driving licence, and on its basis there have been cases when the driving licence has been revoked, for example in cases of epilepsy or when there are severe psychiatric problems.
As this directive is implemented in Greece, if someone is treated in a psychiatric clinic even for a single day, the clinic is obliged to inform the police and the police the Ministry for Traffic, with the consequence that the licence is revoked immediately.
I have tabled a question to the Commission, which fully covers this practice in Greece.
What is now known as the disability movement is building across our continent to work for the day when the 37 million disabled Europeans are able to enjoy full rights of citizenship within our European Union.
Within the powers available to us, this Parliament is acting: creating new access facilities, supporting the code of conduct for employment of disabled people and campaigning for a new European disability programme which genuinely supports equal rights and integration.
But the truth is that neither this Parliament, nor the European Union, cannot today legislate for equal rights for disabled people, because we have no legal base from which to do so.
That is why the movement's campaign for an anti-discrimination clause in the revised Maastricht Treaty and one with a right of appeal to the European Court is our most urgent demand and the most important duty over the next six months for all of us who support disabled people's human rights.
Non-discrimination for disabled people has been described as the last great civil rights movement.
Mr President, I would like sincerely to thank all those who have stayed for the debate and for their contributions.
Experience has shown that despite the recommendation by the Council of Transport Ministers emanating from the European Conference of Ministers of Transport in December 1977 a number of problems still arise in practice.
The Community model parking card for people with disabilities described in the recommendation takes account of the main features of existing national cards along the lines of the Community model driving licence.
As is the case with the driving licence, the parking card will remain a national or regional card but with the Community model design.
With regard to the amendments proposed in the report.
But we would not agree with the following four amendments: Nos 3, 4, 5 and 7.
The reasons are that the term 'Community parking card' , as proposed in the identical Amendment No 3, first part, 4 and 7 is not correct.
It will be a national or regional document issued by the national, regional or local authorities but designed following a standardized Community model.
But it might be useful to use the new and existing cards in parallel, as was suggested by the rapporteur during a transition phase.
I now turn to the Banotti report and resolution.
The Banotti report and the accompanying resolution complements the whole variety of initiatives that are now emerging both within the Member States and all the Community institutions.
So, the Banotti report is quite special here in that it is based on the real-life situation of many people who come forward with their own petitions to Parliament.
I reiterate my own view and that of the Commission.
It was specifically proposed by the Commission in its opinion on the review of the Maastricht Treaty and it supports the move to a rights-based approach which as I have said is the cornerstone really of the Commission's communication on disability strategy.
Looking at these two reports together with the Commission's communication and the Council's resolution, I feel there is an increasingly strong complementarity in all the thinking of the three principal institutions of the Union in relation to people with disabilities.
There is a difference of opinion, but I have been recommending that we should refer in this matter to people with disabilities and that we should have all of the documentation framed in that way.
But you have asked me to check it out with the Greek authorities and that is what I propose doing.
First of all, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his response.
You congratulated me on my own initiative, Commissioner, but I would like to say that it was very much at the initiative of the Committee on Petitions that this report was drawn up.
Some people may say it is not important but most people feel, as we know ourselves in terms of civil rights and terminology, that language really does matter in this area.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9.00 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.15 p.m.)
