Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 May 1998.
Ladies and gentlemen, you are all aware that Italy is currently undergoing a time of great suffering and sorrow because of the tragic mudslides and floods which have affected various localities in the region of Campania, particularly Sarno, Bracigliano, Quindici and Siano.
Mr President, I would like to inform this House that today at 13.00 hours GMT India made an underground thermonuclear test similar to the one that she conducted in 1974.
Mr President, I would like to know if there is anything you can do to find out why Air France has cancelled its regular and special flights to Strasbourg.
Yesterday it took me 14 hours to get here.
I would therefore be very grateful, Mr President, if you could do something to find out why the Air France flights have been cancelled.
Mr President, today ETA still represents the most flagrant violation of human rights within the territory of the European Union.
Mr President, I am attending the European Parliament for the first time, and I am also a regional councillor for Campania, therefore I must mention your consideration for the people of our region who were affected in recent days by the mud slide, a tragedy which has destroyed whole communities, and caused victims, while there are still many people missing in the rubble.
All of this also requires the effort and solidarity of the European Union however, and I therefore thank you and all my colleagues who have asked the European Commission to intervene as quickly as possible to give a tangible sign of European solidarity towards our region.
Mr President, going back to what my colleagues Mr Pomés Ruiz, Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Gutiérrez Díaz said, I also want to express my condemnation of the outrages in the Basque Country and Navarre last week, and our condolences to the victims and their families.
Mr President, it is my honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, this report on the Portuguese authorities' request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of our colleague in this House, Mr Ribeiro Campos.
So there should be mechanisms to protect its Members - because parliamentary immunity is nothing more than protection for the work they do in this Parliament.
And that protection should be provided with full respect for the principle of equality between Members.
The second reason is precisely that mentioned by Palacio Vallelersundi, namely that we would like to minimize this right to immunity as much as possible and ensure that it will not imply any privilege for Members of this Parliament.
The debate is closed.
We, in Parliament, have gradually built up a law of precedent and in this case, indeed in both cases, we could say that it is a matter of fumus persecutionis .
Article 10 of the Protocol says that Members enjoy 'in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliament' .
We invariably reply that the authorities can proceed with their cross-examination and enquiries as long as Parliament as an institution, or in this case the Members concerned, are able to carry out their duties freely and without disruption.
However, there is a certain difference between these two cases which may merit attention.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend that the European Parliament should not adopt any amendments to the common position.
Basically, the common position of the Council includes the proposals that Parliament accepted by a large majority at first reading.
That is why it is our own task to ensure that there is legal certainty in the European Union, and it is our duty to avoid legal fragmentation.
As far as cloning is concerned, the Council has adopted a stricter formulation than the European Parliament.
I would point out that in the directive on animal experiments, reference is made only to "suffering' .
The European Parliament can consolidate its role as colegislator of the European Union with this directive.
The question has been open for more than ten years.
Finally it can be closed, by approving the balanced and efficient text of the common position established by the Council without further amendment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for his patience, his commitment and his incredible staying power during this ten year legislative procedure.
It is important to point this out in order to gain an understanding of the directive, be it in its first or second draft, and in order to classify it correctly in terms of its legal character.
This common position ensures that a clear distinction is made between the gene as a medium for hereditary matter, and as a life giver, and the gene as a simple element in cellular machinery which is a medium for biotechnological inventions and a hope giver.
By clearly distinguishing between a discovery and an invention, and with reference to Articles 3 and 4, the common position avoids the appropriation of life, the human body and its elements in their natural state.
This therefore is a directive which aims to guarantee the intellectual property rights of the inventor on the basis of the usual three criteria - innovation, inventiveness, industrial application - but gives it the framework of specific ethical rules.
It excludes from patentability the human body in all its stages of development, procedures which use germinal cells, embryos and clones created for the purpose of reproducing human beings.
We now have a text which is balanced between the desire to allow scientific progress through research on the living, and the concern to protect human dignity and the integrity of human beings.
Article 6 states that the following cannot be patented: procedures for cloning human beings, procedures which modify the genome line genetic identity of the human being, the use of embryos for industrial or commercial purposes, and of course the human body.
The directive proposes to patent living organisms, their genes and parts of their body, including those of mankind.
To define this information as patentable - for example a human gene when it is isolated and reproduced outside the body - is like stating that the literary writings of Homer, Dante or Shakespeare - today the cultural property of humanity - can be patented if they are reproduced on another system which is the result of human technology, such as a compact disc for example.
I think we all agree that it is the compact disc which can be patented, not the work of Dante or Shakespeare.
For this reason we think that it is not acceptable to patent living organisms, and to do so constitutes above all a dangerous block for scientific research, as stated by the National Institute of Health in the United States of America, which now refuses to patent genes.
The European Parliament has already modified this directive, but the Council has rejected all the amendments which we have proposed, in particular for bio-piracy, concerning the "farmers' privilege' and the mistreatment of animals.
Madam President, my group will be voting against this directive.
We were told that the common position takes into account 66 crucial amendments that Parliament passed, but on examination you find that is not the case.
Madam President, unless the amendments are adopted, I, too, will be voting against this directive.
The reasons for this are many and varied and time does not permit me to elaborate on many of them here, but two matters are of particular importance to me.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some here would like to get the directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions out of the way with all possible speed.
Madam President, when we first voted in this Chamber on the common position discussed by the Council, I strongly supported the defence of the common position.
But Parliament considered that other ethical requirements had not been sufficiently taken into consideration and the first common position of the Council was rejected.
The Commission stated that it recognized all these amendments voted by Parliament.
To make it comprehensible to all in a subject which is complex legally, I will note that Parliament stated, "the human embryo is never patentable, either as the product of a process or as an instrument of a process' .
I shall therefore vote for Amendment Nos 1, 14, 19 and 24 which aim to remove this ambiguity.
This directive has been before the European Parliament for too many years, and is a fair directive which will be approved, without wasting any more time.
For these reasons, while I still express agreement with the basic choice to encourage research to fight illnesses which are serious to human life, I hope that Amendment Nos 1, 14, 19 and 24 - which basically all have the same aim - will be approved.
I am, however, very disappointed that previous Amendments Nos 95, 76 and 78 which were debated and agreed on by this Parliament have re-emerged in the context of the proposal before the House.
When this original directive was voted on by the European Parliament, a specific clause was inserted, known as Amendment No 95, which recognized the right of small farmers to freely re-use all patented seed and to save and further develop their own seed.
Madam President, Commissioner, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I take the view that the current draft directive on biotechnology is a textbook case of European legislation.
Never has the European Parliament had so much influence on European regulations as on this matter.
First the Commission, then the Council, have accepted just about all the amendments of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights, its rapporteur and finally Parliament.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights greatly appreciates this and throws in its lot with the common position of the European Council of Ministers.
Indeed, we cannot wait any longer for a European regulation on this, as a lack of protection for biotechnological inventions will result in a brain-drain to the United States and Japan.
The common position provides a solution for this.
This is developed further in Articles 3 and 15.
Out of respect for the Convention on Biodiversity and for other ethical reasons, I feel that this proposal should be rejected.
There are 68 changes in the common position text from that adopted by Parliament at first reading.
Here is the position of the Official Genetic Interest Group in the UK: ' If a patent is granted on a product or therapy or pharmaceutical product which incorporates or relies upon knowledge of a gene sequence, the patent protection should not cover the sequence itself.
Our Amendment No 22 tries to correct this directive's drafting.
We strongly urge Parliament to reinstate the need for a separate ethics committee able to look at patent application and Amendment No 76 regarding material of foreign and human origin' .
Our Amendments Nos 4, 11 and 12 restate the ethics amendment in full.
Our group will support Amendment No 28, in particular, which aims to reintroduce this practice.
Madam President, once again Parliament is tackling a common position of the Council concerning the directive on patenting of inventions derived from biotechnology.
Meanwhile, we have a second common position and Parliament seems to be tired of the struggle.
The rapporteur recommends adopting the common position as it stands.
It cannot be that the rapid implementation of the directive is more important than achieving a directive which is balanced in its content.
The observation that the Commission and the Council's common position have taken up amendments from Parliament does not stand up to close scrutiny.
As a result, there can be no exchange of seed material between farmers without the payment of licence fees.
The directive represents a delicate balance between granting a patent and respect for animal welfare and dignity of humans.
I broadly support the common position although I share some of the concerns of my colleagues in relation to animal welfare and ethical control.
Because in contrast to what the Green Group is claiming, it is just not true that we want to create jobs through cloning, but through possible applications in the field of gene technology which are ethically undisputed in the view of the majority in this House and, I believe, the majority of European citizens as well.
Let the Commission provide a good explanation as to why it cannot adopt the tabled Amendment No 11 and why it considers its own text, its own interpretation, to be so much better than that of Parliament.
In the pharmaceutical research sector, only 15 % of patents are of European origin whereas 65 % come from America.
A directive on biotechnological inventions ought to help Europe close this gap, but not at any price.
The Commission's new proposal has drawn some lessons from this failure, but it is still not enough.
Parliament has adopted 66 amendments which have been practically integrated into the Council's common position in order to clarify patenting conditions and exceptions.
As we have heard, the human body and certain plant varieties and animal species are not patentable.
Since 1995 these risks have been reduced by protecting the dignity and integrity of human beings and by setting boundaries.
Moreover, the common position states that patent law does not replace or do away with legislation which for ethical reasons limits, prohibits or controls research and the use of its results.
Madam President, the rapporteur and all those who advocate accepting the common position of the Council have recognized that the present common position contains improvements over the draft at first reading.
If we had followed your advice, we would not have these improvements today, and this report would be linked to your name and it would be worse than the other one.
Let me make myself clear: I am in favour of a directive, but I am also in favour of it being qualitatively sensible throughout.
I am rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and the so-called "farmers' privilege' has been improved in the present common position by comparison with the first draft.
However, what the Agriculture Committee wanted, and what this Parliament voted for, has not been included.
And if it is conceded on all sides that the directive was much improved after its first reading in the European Parliament, we can reasonably conclude that the directive can be further improved at second reading...
We may therefore assume that the directive will come into force rapidly even if we accept further changes and come to an understanding with the Council either in a rapid conciliation procedure or perhaps even earlier.
As many here know gene technology, especially in agriculture, is rejected by a large majority, particularly in Austria.
Madam President, as the last speaker from the Group of the European People's Party, I think the first thing I want to do is stress my congratulations.
I have not followed this directive for the full 10 years, Mr Rothley, but ever since I arrived at this Parliament, this directive has been on the table, causing problems.
If anybody wants to modify Regulation 2100/94 then let them do so, but you cannot make modifications through the back door, by means of the present directive.
It is not true that Article 6 is unlawful.
Article 6 establishes, for the first time in an international text, protection for the embryo as contained in the Oviedo Convention on Bioethics, which is expected to come into effect subsequently.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party's Amendment No 9 to Article 26 does not put scientific research on genetic material already obtained at risk.
Finally, Madam President, I appeal to my colleagues to use their legislative powers to ensure good, transparent and ethically responsible legislation in Europe and not to be intimidated by the threats of the Council to reject the directive if Parliament tables amendments.
Madam President, the European Parliament is now taking a position on the whole question of human ethics: what is right and fitting from the point of view of life, and what is not.
Therefore, my Amendment No 78 on the new proposal called for an ethical dimension and more particularly for the establishment of a proper ethics committee.
The Commission should summit proposals for the composition and terms of reference of that committee before this directive comes into effect.
Madam President, our rejection of the proposal in 1995 was well worth the trouble.
Today we have a proposal that takes far greater consideration of animal protection, humanitarian and ethical issues.
By voting for the amendments, then going to conciliation on issues such as the patenting of human embryos and provision for a proper ethics committee, as Mr White has just pointed out, we would see the advances we want in medicine and agriculture but with the various safeguards built in.
As you will recall, Parliament quite rightly rejected the result of this first conciliation.
On 16 July 1997, at first reading, the European Parliament adopted 66 amendments.
On 27 April last, during a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I intended to give some clarification to explain why the common position of the Council could be accepted as such, thus supporting the position of the rapporteur, Mr Rothley.
I do not think it is useful to repeat in detail here, at this time, the reasons - in the opinion of the Commission - in favour of approving the text adopted as the common position.
The European Parliament will be able to question it at will, based on a procedure which the Parliament itself must establish.
The objective to prevent, through the patent right, atrocities and acts of cruelty against animals and the legal instrument for this are present in the text because we are all in agreement on this point.
For all of us the experience of 1995 was a serious and important time and I believe that I can say that we all tried to draw reasons for reflection to recommence our work with tenacity, humility and calmness.
That is the first thing.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has written a letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which is not the subject of the procedure, but in order to express the fact that the position of the Parliament was not accepted in the question of "farmers' privilege' .
Mr van Putten, I can refer in particular to Article 1, paragraph 2, of the directive where it states, "This directive shall be without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States pursuant to international agreements, and in particular the Convention on Biological Diversity and the TRIPs Agreement' .
The debate is closed.
The second question is important because it can influence a dispute at law to a large extent.
The Commission's communication looks at two parts of the second banking directive: the notification procedure and the right of establishment.
The communication clarifies a number of points in this area.
Not all Member States were represented in the SLIM group for the banking system, which means that not all Member States would want to abolish the notification procedure just like that.
The WTO speaks of national treatment for banks.
Neither the European Parliament nor the Council - in other words, the two legislators in the European Community - expresses views before the European Court of Justice on the interpretation of a legal document which they have enacted.
Moreover, the European Court of Justice confirmed this last year, when it declared such a communication from the Commission - it must have been in February - to be unlawful.
As is known, the abolition of Article 20 of the second banking directive was recommended by the SLIM task force for banking questions and the Commission supported the recommendation in its report to the Council.
To abolish the notification procedure, in the case of the provision of cross-border services, means recognizing that it is no longer essential to establish with accuracy in which Member State a financial service is provided, making superfluous a distinction which is increasingly difficult to operate, given that financial services are more often provided through electronic means, such as the Internet.
However, it would not be correct to state that the abolition of Article 20 and the consequent irrelevance of the place of provision of a service means that the consumer has a greater choice of place where he can seek legal redress.
I would also like to mention some principles of the single market for financial services which should be considered in the examination of points 4 and 8 of the report.
The supervisory authorities of a host Member State are never asked to issue or refuse authorization to a foreign credit institution, either for reasons of general interest or for any other reason.
The second banking directive, in fact, states the principle that a credit institution must request authorization from the supervisory authorities of the Member State of origin.
This credit institution can therefore provide, in any other Member State, the financial services for which it has obtained authorization in its Member State of origin.
On the other hand, I agree, what is this communication based on?
If we try to define this concept in the directive, the directive will become subject to frequent modifications.
If the Commission had announced the abolition of Article 20 of the second banking directive, before being able to remedy the legal uncertainty it would have taken a few years from the beginning of the legislative procedure.
We therefore decided to clarify the situation immediately, and in this context, I can also announce that a proposal concerning the abolition of Article 20 of the second banking directive will be examined shortly by the Banking Advisory Committee.
The debate is closed.
