I raise this matter here because the stoppages and strikes in the Asturian mining industry may get worse, because tension is rising.
The European Union is involved in this, because the underlying problem in the conflict is that the European Commission has not accepted the plan which had already been negotiated between the Spanish Government and the unions.
Mrs Garcia Arias, we read about this distressing incident in the newspapers today.
Will he make a personal statement today or will President Santer inform the House why it is important at this time of great unemployment in Europe that Commissioners should hold two jobs?
Mr McMahon, since we are approving the Minutes, I should inform the House that with regard to the Commission's position on the issue of whether its Members have the right to take on political commitments when they are also Members of the Commission, the Commission has advised me that its President is proposing to make an announcement during our next sittings, on 28 and 29 January in Brussels.
This trend is very important for us, because the lack of broad share ownership in Europe, and especially in Germany, has put the burden of pension provision very much on the state, rather than on taxpayers.
If this really jeopardizes Germany's ability to join European monetary union as scheduled, that would of course be a dramatic setback for the development of a financial area comparable with the USA, with adverse consequences for all our citizens.
Mr President, the introduction of the euro raises two fundamental problems: that of its internal value and the stability of prices within the European Union; and that of its external value and the stability of its exchange rate.
With regard to the first point, it is not possible today to have a clear idea of the market reactions to the introduction of the euro, particularly in the short term.
It refuses to raise the question of EU monetary policy in terms of a choice between a strong euro and a weak euro, as this is a false problem.
The real problem is to ensure a stable euro, without artificial reinforcements and without attempts being made in the opposite direction to promote the competitiveness of the European economy through the weakening of its currency.
A stable and credible euro, providing a stable balance for the public finances, will enable interest rates to be controlled and therefore the development of investment to be facilitated, reabsorbing the surplus savings that have so far been used to finance public deficits, thus promoting a broader rate of growth.
Naturally, the stability of the exchange rate depends on American monetary policy and unforeseeable external shocks.
This poses two problems: that of promoting close monetary cooperation with the United States in our reciprocal interests, and that of ensuring a clear responsibility for the exchange policy within the European Union.
On this second point, the report notes that there is still an area of institutional ambiguity.
In the long term, it is to be hoped that EU monetary policy will facilitate the gradual ascent of the euro from European regional currency to world currency with the same dignity as the dollar.
This will depend on the extent to which the exchange rate between the euro and the dollar reflects the fundamental economic relations between the two areas, and the extent to which it is used in currency and financial transactions by operators outside the European Union.
The third question relates to the implications of the euro on the international monetary system.
The elimination of a substantial part of international trade and currencies and the introduction of a totally new currency will radically change the world currency landscape by simplifying it to three fundamental currencies, which will open a totally new chapter in the history of currency, with high risks of volatility and conflict but also with great opportunities for cooperation.
These opportunities may be collected in a new agreement that promotes a more systematic framework for world currency.
The report suggests that the European Union should adopt a political initiative to this effect.
Finally, with the introduction of the euro, a substantial part of the dollar reserves held today by the European central banks will probably become objectively available.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are 352 days left before the start of the third phase of EMU.
That means that from that date the euro will become the common currency for about two hundred million European citizens.
Throughout the different phases of EMU, its protagonists have been fulfilling their commitments: the Member States have prepared their convergence programmes; the Commission and the Council have carried out their supervisory tasks and elaborated regulatory instruments; the European Monetary Institute has been set up and has started to work properly; Parliament has made the euro one of the priorities of its debates; industry, the credit institutions and the capital markets are getting ready for the new situation which will be created when the euro is introduced.
For these citizens - for consumers in general - the introduction of the euro raises a series of problems: use of the euro during the transitional period; exchange between national currencies participating in the euro during that transitional phase; finally moving to euro notes and coins at the end of that phase; the continuity of contracts, especially the so-called accession contracts with telephone and electricity supply companies, etc.
Our starting point must be to stress the importance of the change which will happen on 1 January 1999.
Although notes and coins will not enter circulation until three years later, in 2002, the big change will already have taken place in 1999.
We need to use the transitional period to ensure that the introduction of the euro is efficient, and to get consumers used to thinking in euros.
I was held up by an interview on this report and my watch was wrong.
The advent of electronic money is as big a revolution as the single currency itself.
It would be logical to combine that investment with a further step forward towards electronic money, either in the form of Internet money or smart-card electronic purses.
Of course, electronic money has a whole range of other implications for central banking and for banking supervision.
They have concluded that the pace at which electronic money is likely to come into European economies is not sufficiently fast for it to be a factor by 1 January 2002.
The function of my report, therefore, is a rather modest one.
It is going to massively increase the competitive capacity of our economy in global terms, but the introduction of electronic money has that potential too.
The pace at which Europe becomes an electronic market-place is going to determine the pace at which Europe becomes a true information society.
My task is the modest one of warning our partners in the Commission, the Council and in Member State governments that this interface between the introduction of the euro and the advent of electronic money is something which we have to watch very carefully.
Already today, around 30 % of world payments are made with all the various European currencies.
This is in line with the growing use of the main European currencies in recent years, with the simultaneous weakening of the world prevalence of the dollar: from 50 % to 42 % in payments between 1990-95, from 67 % to 40 % in financial applications between 1981 and 1995, and from 76 % to 6.5 % as a reserve currency between 1973 and 1995.
The European campaign is obviously important, but we cannot put off a world campaign, accompanied by other appropriate measures.
The problem of continuity of contract was already settled by the regulations which we examined some time past, and the report now basically deals with regulations to be adopted, either by the national authorities of the Member States, or by professional organizations.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work.
If you look at these reports and the work that we have undertaken on economic and monetary union, despite the difficulties that we have had, including the economic downturn in the early 1990s, we have now reached a point where the momentum behind economic and monetary union is unstoppable.
If you look at the biggest players in the financial services sector they have based their strategic decisions over the past few years on the assumption that EMU will indeed go ahead.
All this marks the transition to economic and monetary union on 1 January 1999.
In less than four months, the Council will take that final important decision, and as a Parliament we have to look beyond that decision of 2 May and the start of the EMU on 1 January 1999 and set ourselves a new agenda within the European Parliament.
Today I would like to set out some of the priorities for my group over the coming years.
We in this Parliament must make sure that it is applied rigorously so that we can protect the stability of our currency.
Secondly, our group wants to see greater steps made in economic coordination.
We would like to have a dialogue with you over the next couple of weeks to ensure that the broad economic guidelines for the future are what we actually require in this new European environment.
We need a Banking Committee in the European Parliament that deals with financial services and which will deal with the European Central Bank in the same way that nations like the United States of America have a powerful Banking Committee.
We should set up a European Economic Forum where national parliaments and Members of this European Parliament can meet to monitor carefully economic coordination and the role of the European Central Bank.
Our job as a European Parliament, your job as a Commission and the job of the Council is to make sure that between now and 1 January 1999, and particularly 2002, the citizens accept and welcome all the work that we have done and the creation of that single currency.
We are no longer in a system of fixed parities.
Of course, the problem between the 'ins' and the 'outs' will remain, but this is likely to be a minor factor.
The markets will play a determining role in this, as will the Central Bank and the interest rates it sets.
The relationship between internal and external value will be established by the Central Bank.
Its power is already greater than the Bundesbank, and this can only be changed by a unanimous decision of the fifteen Member States.
So how can this situation be improved?
That is why the hearing is of such great importance, and I thank both the Bureau and our colleagues, who have ensured that the hearings take place under the best conditions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group Union for Europe, I wish to address the excellent report by our colleague Ingo Friedrich.
The Commission's proposal is based on the principle that market harmonization, which will accompany the introduction of the euro, is a subject of great interest for the financial markets.
In paragraph 11, the resolution rightly raises the fact that dividends and redemptions of pension funds, life assurance and property funds are made in local currency, which means that a substantial portion of the funds must remain in the country of origin according to the principle of congruence.
In reality, thanks to monetary union, the whole of the monetary space of the EU will become a single territory.
This considerably enlarges the field of action for invested capital, and it is at this point that the full scope of the challenge faced by the EU with regard to the United States arises, as regards the capital markets and the future of the savings and investment sector at the global level, both in the medium and longer term.
The MATIF, which is one of the most important futures markets in Europe, if not the most important, should be able to continue to develop and compete with the futures market of the United States.
We need to regard EMU both as a logical follow-up to the single market, and also as a teaching tool, popularizing European integration and enlargement.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party I wish to address the report by Mr Ruffolo.
In fact, it is in that context, in a global market, that the euro perhaps offers its greatest potential to Europe for the future and to the single market in particular.
In that context, the role of politicians is to look at economic fundamentals in the real economy; the role of politicians is to achieve an appropriate level of convergence; the role of politicians is to define what is the desirable level of price stability internally.
EMU is a step backwards for European democracy.
The irremovable six-strong membership of the board takes decisions for 370 million people, who have not accorded them the power to do so by means of any referendum.
To these, I would add two more: the growing trade taking place on the Internet, which might cause problems for individual states to collect taxes and thus fund the welfare state; and the fact that the year 2000 might cause some computer systems to fail.
There is virtually nothing to stand in the way of the take-off of electronic money in Europe, except the deafening silence and "wait and see' attitude of political and economic decision-makers in Europe.
In the light of the two revolutions which are currently causing a radical upheaval in European financial practice - and here I mean the introduction of the single currency and the development of digital moneys of account - how can we not conceive of the introduction of new forms of payment, and more particularly, of the re-definition of money and currency itself, and of the role of the banks and the supervisory authorities?
The virtual purse should have a tremendous future ahead of it, as the advantages it presents are many and varied.
Is there not a tremendous risk that the national banking authorities, or the future European Central Bank, will be stripped of their supervisory power by the telecommunications multi-nationals over the next twenty years?
Mr President, this report, which is brimful with optimism, should not blind us to the fact that the introduction of the single currency has forced our countries to adopt the policy of austerity, a policy which was welcome after the years of budgetary laisser faire and which - particularly in Belgium - led to astronomical public debt.
That is why I believe European monetary union can make a contribution not only to achieving a reasonable situation as regards competition between today's world currencies, but also to developing international monetary stability and also normality in the significance of world currencies to each other in relation to trade and economic conditions.
So the European Parliament and the European Commission are right in attaching great importance to stability and to the international dimension of the euro.
We cannot have a monetary union and yet continue to voice differing views in international financial organizations or at G8 or G10 meetings.
I hope, therefore, that the role of the Commission will be enhanced in view of the international dimension of the euro.
It is also high time the Commission brought forward a further euro regulation, to ensure that there is no cost to the consumer in converting from national currencies to the euro, that any kind of conversion fraud or abuse is ruled out, and, above all, this regulation should provide for dual pricing.
I think it is in the interest of a successful monetary union, which will be judged not only by the reaction of the markets but also by the reaction of our citizens, that the Commission should finally present us with a regulation of this kind.
Every consumer will have only one conversion rate from his or her old national currency to the euro.
So that simply will not be a problem, and I am willing to bet that within 48 hours, perhaps just 24 hours, consumers will have caught on to the conversion rate, and nobody will be able to hoodwink them after that.
Mr President, first of all I want to congratulate the various rapporteurs on their reports.
I believe that the success of economic and monetary union will largely depend on the way in which our citizens are prepared for the introduction of the single currency.
I call on the Commission today to agree to, and to finance, a national and European 'euro hotline' to protect consumers' and business' interests as we embark on this great initiative.
It is essential that information, training and education campaigns are put in place for all our citizens as well as businesses.
When prices are converted consumers must also be shown how to easily calculate the conversion from the Member State currency into the euro.
It is important that consumers become accustomed to the pricing before 2002.
One of the distinctive advantages of the euro is that it will enable consumers in my country and elsewhere to compare the prices of goods and services, including tourism products.
It will ensure transparency in pricing; it will ensure exchange rate and interest rate stability; it will stifle currency speculation and will stimulate growth in employment.
I believe that the national authorities must ensure that there is adequate and intelligible information on the real cost of introducing the euro, together with adequate information for consumers in order to guarantee competition and to detect and stop unjustified price rises - hence my call for a 'euro hotline' .
In conclusion, as I have already stated in this House, the euro notes must be friendly to the visually impaired.
In the intervening period, a number of modifications, particularly technological, have meant that questions now arise as to the degree of realism of the third phase, and in particular the viability of the three year period during which we will have to live as it were on a rack, pulled in two opposite directions - schizophrenically in two minds - between the national currency used in our daily lives and the use of fiduciary currencies already very largely dominated by the euro.
For this reason, I wonder whether it might not be more appropriate to conceive of a means of accelerating the process, particularly as the great computer deadline for the year 2000 will make it essential to upgrade all our computer systems, and as there is every reason, for economic reasons alone, to look forward to a real boost in the use, and at all events the display, of the euro as a currency for use in many day-to-day transactions.
However, we must not lose sight of the fact that our effort to promote and secure the euro as an international currency and to ensure its stability on international markets is being carried out in the context of the implementation of austerity programmes, strict monetary discipline, the dictates of the stability pact and, finally, in the context of total upheaval in the jobs market and the dwindling of workers' security and social rights.
At the same time, developments on global money markets simply confirm the intense anxiety regarding the economic progress of those countries that do not conform.
The Commission is under an obligation to study the repercussions and the powerful side effects on the weaker economies, such as in Greece for example, but also in other countries outside and inside the euro which are more vulnerable to international speculative pressures.
Mr President, we need to say something here about the economic substance of the revolution which we are signing up to on all sides.
We are thus witnessing a new degree of separation of monetary cycles from the real economy and from the primary income that can only be derived from that economy, and accordingly also from the material reproduction capacity of economic structures as a component of a complex world society with increasingly global problems and planet-wide responsibility.
Mr President, this Parliament might be able to make a good impression with this debate on EMU.
The number of nations forecasted to join EMU has never been so high.
The jubilant mood about EMU is very understandable, but also very dangerous.
This means an enormous gap exists between the decision to be made on 2 May 1998, and what the people think the decision will be.
Those who think EMU will go ahead because there is proper economic convergence are wrong.
EMU will not take place as a result of convergence having been achieved, but because important politicians have thrown their lot in with it.
It will be difficult as an MEP to explain why the euro is good for the European consumer.
Mr President, my comments are limited to Mr Stevens' report.
It would have extremely important consequences if this Parliament initiative boosted willingness to cooperate within the Council, and if the various national initiatives in the field of smart-card technology at least became compatible.
Developments in information and communications technology will also soon have an impact on the way we use money.
Mr President, in 11 months time 11 countries will enter economic and monetary union here in Europe.
The goal of our single currency aspirations will be scored by this first team of 11 players with four countries on the substitutes bench, limbering up, ready to join the fray later, perhaps before the next World Cup in 2002.
The Pérez Royo report rightly identifies concerns of some of the single currencies-watching spectators.
There are many older people in Britain today who recall 1971 decimalization as a time to cry foul against the ticket touts making money out of those unfamiliar with a new currency.
Perhaps, as the rapporteur has argued in earlier debates, acceptance of EMU might have been promoted by linking it to new technologies like electronic money.
With reference to the Ruffolo report on certain external aspects of the euro, I would corroborate the rapporteur's concern regarding the external representation of the European Community on bodies like, for instance, the IMF.
A stable euro will be good for Europe and good for the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give my view on the Ruffolo report, which prompts three questions with regard to the euro and external relations.
Secondly, what currency policy should be adopted in the management of the European currency?
As regards the second question, which for us here is the more important one - the question of the exchange rate policy and the value of the euro - I think a number of fundamental misunderstandings should be avoided.
The question is not whether to establish a strong or a weak euro, but how the market will react to the monetary policies of the European Central Bank and of the United States Fed, and to the budget and fiscal policies adopted by the two great trading zones.
If it pursues its objective of price stability to good purpose, we will have a stable euro - and that is almost certainly the main objective - whose value will stand in a proper relationship to the evolution of economic fundamentals and expectations as to future trends.
In this framework, such target bands can be of assistance in coordinating the economic policies of the various countries, by determining a few major policy lines and hence ensuring that economic managers in the various states communicate, on concrete and clearly determined bases, and in a word, by setting up the best possible communication between decision makers and hence, hopefully, giving rise to the best possible economic decision-making.
But it would be illusory to believe, as some still seem to, that we will be able to return to an international monetary system along the lines of Bretton Woods, with fixed parities between the euro, the dollar and the yen.
This report indicates that the introduction of the euro in stock exchange transactions and listings as from 1 January 1999 will solve all the problems and distortions which exist between the various investors of the Member States of the Union, and marks an important stage in the harmonization of the process of establishing the European market.
It is a very optimistic report because not all the problems of the financial markets will be resolved.
And in fact legal and tax barriers still exist that cannot be overcome, as the report recognizes and which, on that account, cannot mean that only the euro can overcome them.
This report comes at an important time in the development of electronic money.
The new technology, already under development in many Member States, is the subject of discussion within the Commission, the European Monetary Institute and the Member States.
But by adopting his report now, before the other institutions, the European Parliament can send a strong signal that the development of electronic money must not be impeded by excessive regulation and incompatible standards.
The purpose of my amendments was to send that signal and to remove anti-competitive elements present in the rapporteur's first draft.
The report now provides a regulatory framework which will ensure the confidence of the public in electronic money, the stability and the soundness of issuers and the smooth functioning of the single market.
Thirdly, this debate shows a massive conformity of views.
Mr President, the reports we are examining today on the introduction of the single currency show that the technicians are imperturbably getting on with their work and that, on paper at least, the mechanisms of the future euro market are being drawn up in outline.
Above all, we should not lose sight of the fact that citizens in the European countries are still not very convinced - that is the least that can be said: only 47 % of those questioned are in favour across Europe as a whole - at a time when there is no enthusiasm for the euro project, and when the percentage of those in favour is tending to fall, as the 1999 introduction date approaches.
This is what happens when a single currency is imposed on two countries which differ in competitiveness.
The countries in which companies have competitiveness problems will experience rising unemployment.
In eastern Europe, the creation of national currencies in Estonia, Slovakia and Slovenia or in other countries was experienced at the time as a liberation.
It enabled these countries to move over to the market economy in the best conditions.
However, the sound monetary health of Switzerland or Norway demonstrates all the attractiveness of national currencies.
In a word, it serves no useful purpose to get into a technical debate without resolving the prior question of the creation of the euro in principle, a question which can only be truly settled by democratic debate, in the form of the organization of referenda.
In a few weeks, everything will be in place, and in one year the euro will be the legal currency for more than 200 million Europeans.
This is the reason why today's debate is very important, and I would like thank and congratulate our rapporteurs for their work and contribution.
Still on the question of the citizen and the consumer, I support the very firm and very clear demand for home currency to euro conversion to be free of charge to the citizen.
Furthermore, I am of course in favour of democratic control of the European Central Bank, and hence at the very minimum of control by the Ecofin council on the exchange rate policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard a lot of words, and we shall hear a lot more this morning and this afternoon.
This Parliament's Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs and its Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have done some excellent work in recent years.
Mr President, the joint debate on these reports presupposes the citizen to be a Europhile, but to my mind this is not by any means yet the case.
My colleagues have already discussed other points, or will do so.
The Commission meanwhile, in its statement on the practical aspects related to the implementation of the euro, has promised to make a number of proposals.
As far as dual pricing is concerned, I would like to know what stage decision-making is at.
There is a whole problem of credibility and trust that is well equated in the explanation of reasons when the warning is given that people may have the idea that the euro is just for the rich, or that it will only be of use to them, whether at consumer or company level, with the small and medium-sized businesses having greater difficulties with regard to administrative and accounting management and managing the costs of introducing a single currency in several countries.
We also need to take account of the competition principle, according to which a major part of funds has to remain inland, in the European Union - I am thinking of the Friedrich report now - and all the more so right now, because investment in the European Union is more important than ever, if we are to get a grip on our employment situation.
Furthermore, the consumer policy aspects are also highly important.
Mr President, a very important debate is being held this morning that highlights the active role played by the European Parliament in this stage of development of the final, definitive stage of economic and monetary union.
I want to start with a question: is it enough to establish the objective of stability as the fundamental mission at the basis of the independence of the future European Central Bank, to insist on the requirements of accountability to have a good system of governing the European economy?
There is no doubt that monetary policy interacts with the rest of economic policy and is conditioned by it: it interacts in particular with fiscal policy, budgetary policy, tax policy, with what we can call the non-monetary government of the economy.
And so the basic subject we have before us is that of the future system of economic governance for the European Union in economic and monetary union.
Mr President, I welcome the main thrust of the Pérez Royo report because it recognizes that real and tangible measures must be implemented to protect consumer interests in the run-up to the introduction of the single European currency.
While I recognize that the actual euro notes and coins will not be put into the pockets of the 340 million consumers until the year 2002, time is still of the essence with regard to the European-funded information campaigns which need to be orchestrated in this regard.
In advance of the date of 2002 many banking and commercial transactions can be carried out using the euro denomination.
The European Commission, together with the national governments, must fund information campaigns relating specifically to the pricing of products in both the euro and the currency of the host Member State in the run-up to EMU.
Dual-pricing campaigns must be part of this process, and such campaigns must take place in all key supermarkets and shopping outlets across Europe.
The euro will undeniably play an important part as an international currency, and will create more balance within the international monetary system, especially in relation to the dollar.
EMU will enable the EU better to offer resistance against external shocks such as the ones caused by speculative capital flows.
EMU means an important step towards a new and more balanced international monetary system, from a unipolar to a multipolar system, in which the European Union will be able to play a leading role, and, it is to be hoped, will actually do so.
EMU will give the European Union a greater responsibility within the international financial economic organizations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago the political will for this ambitious project of the euro came into being.
Today we are on the eve of a transitional period which may be important and of great significance for the credibility of the new European currency.
They will give the new currency more credibility by not only issuing new loans in euros, but by converting the outstanding national debts as much as possible into the euro.
I am not saying that the euro will take the place of the dollar, but I am saying that the euro may become an important factor of diversification.
I think that the European Commission and, if necessary, the national Member States must make legal provisions and guarantee free conversion of national currency into the euro.
Lastly, the introduction of the euro offers new opportunities and perspectives in a broader sphere.
Let us try today to make a start on European coordination, as agreed on 1 December.
Commissioner, just guess how much money she got from the Austrian machine - she got exactly half, just 50 %!
I think this sort of thing costs a lot of money in tourism and in other areas.
When you consider that we have about 50 % more bank employees than in America, and at higher staff costs at that, and that all this is partly necessary to grapple with the whole area of foreign currency exchange and risk, then we will certainly have to keep an eye on our banks in Europe and consider what banking supervision arrangements we shall need in future.
If you consider that between 1985 and 1995 the dollar led to the loss of some 1.3 million jobs in Europe, according to a study by the Austrian Institute of Economic Research, then you will appreciate just how important a single currency is for us.
So there are opportunities for Europe in this field.
But here, too, I believe the European Commission will have to take action to make the Member States see that they can no longer hang on to outdated policy on this front.
particularly as the institutions dealing with the currency and the consumers have clearly and perfectly defined rules of operation.
These measures should begin as soon as possible, for as from 1 January 1999 the euro can be used as fiduciary money in accounting terms or in the form of cheques and credit and debit cards.
It is desirable because the transparency the existence of prices in a single currency will draw, and the need to apply a rigorous financial policy leading to a fall in rates of interest and inflation, can only be beneficial to the consumer.
That is why I am asking the Commission whether it is prepared to provide these: information for consumers and training for employees; support for specific programmes, for schools, universities, non-governmental organizations - particularly those connected with women, who represent 70 % of consumers; and for there to be no cost of converting from national currency to euros and vice versa.
Communication and information technology are making great leaps forward.
At the moment, 90 % of payments take place within the Member States.
In the Stevens report, Parliament indicates for the first time which direction it wants to take with regards to these future payment systems.
I am glad that Parliament seems to choose a direction which offers space to competition between several tenderers monitored by the European Central Bank.
The rapporteur thinks dual pricing should commence as early as 1 January 1999.
The observation centres which, according to the rapporteur, will have to monitor conversion to the euro, strike me as completely unnecessary.
Last June's legislation on conversion is enough to guarantee security for the consumer.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the euro must be strong and dependable.
Already 64 % of the larger Finnish concerns have said they are getting prepared for the switch.
Mr President, the introduction of the euro will obviously bring about change for all market players, and we are convinced that the positive effects will amply outstrip the negative ones.
We have therefore submitted an amendment in which we ask the Commission to submit a proposal to amend Regulation 1103.
I would be interested to know if the Commissioner is prepared to consider an initiative to this effect.
These interests run much more parallel than some people would have us believe.
Mr Stevens' report in particular looks at the introduction of new technology and offers one solution in the form of electronic money.
I agree with my colleagues who have talked about the introduction of a banking committee, because we need a dialogue with the European Central Bank, we need surveillance and close monitoring of the European Central Bank, and we need the European Central Bank to be accountable, so that Parliament can offer advice.
But I, along with my colleagues, believe that we must never compromise the independence of the Central Bank, otherwise the financial markets will turn on the euro.
Mr President, we have heard four very interesting reports on a subject of fundamental importance.
The euro is a peaceful end-of-century revolution; it is an essential condition for providing a uniform and collective economic system which the European Union has to use as a great means of making its function understood.
Finally, we would like to recall several aspects that are connected with the operation of the single currency.
It is in the commercial system that the euro will be most widely circulated and known by the citizen as a consumer.
In our countries, every citizen fortunately has the right to seek legal redress before the courts.
But I can assure you that the euro will see the light of day on 1 January 1999.
The decision will be taken on 2 May by the Heads of State and of Government.
I believe that a majority of Member States should be in a position to participate in the euro on 1 January 1999.
Having said that, the present debate shows that this House is, quite rightly, concerned with the practical procedures and consequences of the introduction of the euro, and with the proper conduct of economic and monetary union from 1 January 1999 onwards.
Firstly, the Friedrich report on the impact of the introduction of the euro on the financial markets.
In these fields, regulations are above all a responsibility of the national authorities, and of course depend on the markets as such.
The Commission has drafted recommendations, in response to a request frequently raised by market operators.
The harmonization of capital markets must be carried out by the markets themselves, on the basis of the two regulations on the legal status of the euro adopted in the wake of the European Council in Amsterdam in July.
Furthermore, the organizations with responsibility for calculating national benchmark indices have made every arrangement to implement the necessary changes on 1 January 1999.
This index will I believe be known as Euribor, the European interbanking offered rate.
All these questions will be given an appropriate response in the next few months.
It is very important indeed to create a regulatory framework which will allow for effective market operation.
As regards the exchange rate policy - and here I take advantage of the situation to respond to questions which have often been raised outside Parliament on this subject - the European Council, by emphasizing the responsibility which will be laid upon the Community due to the introduction of the euro, is insistent on the necessity for full application of the provisions of the Treaty to ensure that, as between the Council and the European Central Bank, there is an exchange of views and information on the euro exchange rate.
On the recommendation of the Commission or of the European Central Bank, the Council may in exceptional circumstances formulate general orientations for exchange rate policy with regard to non-Community currencies, in accordance with Article 109 Paragraph 2 of the Treaty.
Similarly, on a proposition from the Commission, the Council will be required to draw up the Community position on international questions which have a particular bearing on economic and monetary union, pursuant to Article 109, Paragraph 4 of the Treaty.
I believe the conclusions I have just formulated very broadly answer the question raised by your rapporteur on the interpretation of Article 109.
After hearing this morning's debate and the opinions from various quarters, I wish only to lay emphasis on two aspects of Mr Ruffolo's report.
At all events, the Commission believes that it is not its responsibility to give instructions to the European Central Bank on the manner in which it is to manage currency reserves, as that could well be perceived as an attempt to limit its independence.
The second aspect which I would wish to emphasize relates to the particular wish expressed by some of you this morning to fix a benchmark value for the euro to dollar exchange rate.
I agree in this respect with Mr Fourçans' comments on target bands.
These conclusions of the European Council, in accordance with the wish of your Parliament, confirm the need for a common approach to the euro zone on the question of its representation in international monetary meetings and authorities.
Mr Stevens' thinking appears to me to be very much in line with the current work of the Commission.
In 1998, the Commission will make a proposal for a directive on this subject.
It is essential to ensure public understanding and confidence in the new means of payment.
Similarly, the stability and integrity of existing systems must be guaranteed.
The development of electronic commerce and security of payments requires products to be reliable, user friendly, efficient and secure.
Such protection is mentioned in the Commission communication of April 1997 on the European initiative in the field of electronic commerce.
Like your rapporteur, the Commission is in favour of the principle of a regulatory framework for interoperability and stability in the financial system, while also assuring public confidence and guaranteeing the plurality of issuers of electronic money.
In July 1997, the Commission adopted a recommendation setting out a number of rules in the field of transparency, responsibility, and avenues of legal redress in the context of the relationship between the issuer and the holder of an instrument of payment.
This is why the report from Mr Pérez Royo is a useful part of the current work being undertaken on practical aspects of the euro.
I want you to know that the Commission shares the same concerns as your rapporteur, and that is why it decided to hold a new round table on 26 February, with all the social partners and interested organizations in Parliament, the Commission and the Council, in order to reach a consensus approach to a solution to the problems and positions which are still pending.
Dual price displays were much mentioned this morning.
Having said that, the Commission has taken note of your suggestion, according to which legislative measures should be taken if voluntary dual price displays were found to be lacking.
Finally, I come to your rapporteur's second concern.
This is of course the Commission's objective, and we proposed it in May 1995 in our Green Paper.
The Commission notes your suggestion of an approach based on legislation for all matters involving the exchange of coins and banknotes, the number of states participating in the transitional period, and the swapping of national banknotes and coins into euros on 1 January 2002.
The Commission has set up a group of experts to study the question of the banking expenses relating to the conversion of home currencies into the euro.
At this stage, while I share the objective of your rapporteur, the group is moving towards a more flexible solution, based on a commitment from the professionals, and particularly on the eventuality of a code of conduct subscribed to by the credit institutions, on the basis of a recommendation of the committee on credit establishments, and which the banks might agree to on a voluntary basis.
The two regulations on the legal status of the euro, in the unanimous opinion of the Member States and the competent professionals, offer every necessary guarantee in the field of contract law.
It is now necessary to see to it that transparency and the prohibition of unlawful contractual clauses are assured and, if consumer protection directives have to be adapted, let us do so - which is something I suggested and proposed in October 1996, by the way.
We need to set ourselves the target that, by 2 May, when the Heads of State and Government draw up the list of countries, all European citizens will have had comprehensive information on all the consequences and all the solutions to be brought to the practical problems which they are raising.
Commissioner, I would just like to emphasize again that in the course of this debate all the speakers who have called for dual pricing in the interests of consumer protection have in no way been suggesting that the interests of consumers and the interests of small and medium-sized companies and individual retailers should be played off against each other.
I asked specifically whether the Commissioner is prepared to take an initiative to amend Regulation 1103 of 11 June 1997.
It establishes the principle of continuity, but it does leave space for accession contracts which deviate from this principle, for accession contracts which affect continuity.
We submitted an amendment to this effect.
Parliament requests that this regulation is amended, and I would be grateful if the Commissioner could tell me if he is prepared to take an initiative in this direction.
Thirdly, Mrs Thyssen, if this raises a problem with regard to unlawful contractual clauses, I believe I have said that I am ready to look into a modification, or an adaptation of the consumer protection directives, in such a way as to ensure the transparency of contracts, and the prohibition of unlawful clauses contained in them.
If you have practical problems, do not hesitate to lay them before us in writing.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The same is true for paragraph 31.
Consequently paragraph 17 and paragraph 31 require a corrigendum as regards the Greek translation.
I therefore propose orally that paragraph 33 be amended by adding the word not .
Simply, when you say to us that it is just a question of adding a negation, everybody is fully aware of the fact that this totally changes the way we are going to vote.
The obstacles to the free movement of persons in the European Union have been progressively eliminated.
To accompany this irreversible legal process and complete it, we need today to develop an ambitious and high quality policy in the field of rail transport in Europe, for persons and goods.
Here it is no longer possible to reason on the scale of our national companies, which are often heavily in debt.
A more flexible management better adapted to customer requirements, with open competition in a free market, must gradually be introduced.
I therefore share the conclusions of the European Commission's White Paper, and I approve both the orientations and the provisional timetable for the Sarlis report.
The introduction of a minimum of competition, in particular for long-distance freight transport, would rebalance the single market, and create the conditions for rail which road already has in its favour.
The Commission must - in collaboration with the interested parties - undertake an assessment of the application of the basic directive before envisaging its modification along more free-market lines.
The example of Great Britain in this field shows us the hard and stark reality of liberalization for passengers, in which the only objective of the private companies is profitability, at the expense of a universal service reduced to the purely notional, and which will be completely sidelined.
How can we imagine that private companies could commit the colossal amounts of investment which appear necessary for the future high-speed networks without passing on the cost to the users, and without eliminating the lines which are in book-keeping terms less profitable.
As a French socialist, I cannot vote for the Sarlis report, just as I cannot approve the European Commission's proposal.
The report raises several important structural issues relating to railways and transport as a whole within the EU.
The Sarlis report limits itself to introducing phasing into the Commission's privatization strategy and advocating further social measures to reduce the disastrous consequences on employment.
In this context, we can only vote against the report and reject the strategy proposed by the Commission, hoping that it will not be approved by Council.
It is important to push on with the railways policy inside the European Community, and well beyond.
It is absolutely necessary to accelerate rail transport if it is wished to develop it as a means of transportation.
This new approach of collaboration between railways presages well, and I would like to congratulate the managers for their courage.
I hope they will receive the support of governments and also the trade unions.
Consequently, the Commission passes over in silence the fact that the repercussions risk being very different in the various Member States, as liberalization benefits companies working in environments where the social benefits of the workforce are curtailed.
This is vital not only for those who work in the rail sector, but also as part of our efforts to move freight traffic from our congested roads onto more environmentally friendly rail.
The report strikes a sensible and fair balance between granting free access to railways for companies operating international freight business, and ensuring decent working conditions and training for staff.
Desama Report (A4-0384/97) I would like once again to congratulate our colleague Claude Desama for the quality and readability of his report, for the pertinence of his analysis and for the interest of his proposals.
There is no doubt that we are at a turning point in space activities, and hence for our European space industries.
Faced with American and - in the longer term - Asian competition, it is important that we move towards greater concentration in order to maximize the enormous investment required for research and development in this sector.
The future depends on our political will.
I share the declared determination of Claude Desama to include in his report the necessary environmental dimension of space technologies, both in terms of prevention of natural disasters, and in terms of cleaning up space debris.
Space and associated fields can make a useful contribution.
It is important that, right now, the proposals put forward by Claude Desama should be rapidly put into practice.
It is clear that if the single currency is introduced on schedule, the work of the professionals in the financial industry and in the operation of the capital markets, and the centre of gravity of the financial marketplaces, and the European financial landscape itself, will all be changed.
For this reason, I was expecting the European Parliament's report to contain, as in the past, glowing demonstrations of the ability of a wider and more liquid capital market to reduce the cost of borrowing, for example.
When all is said and done, monetary union will make us more losers, in terms of new rigidities and economic turbulence, than we are gainers, as a result of technical simplification.
The report mentions that there will be a flourishing share culture as a result of the euro.
The Danish Social Democrats are able to support the report, but point out that Denmark is not taking part in the third phase of economic and monetary union.
There is also a high risk that EMU, with its one-sided preoccupation with fighting inflation, will lead to increased unemployment and increased regional imbalances.
Against that background, I have abstained or voted against the four reports on the euro.
Ruffolo Report (A4-0338/97) Madam President, I wish to speak more generally on the problem of the euro at a time when, in a world market, the currency will be regional, and even so not completely regional, as Great Britain at least will not be participating.
In this particular case, the euro will be a vehicle for conveying information for a society of 17 million unemployed people, 50 million impoverished people, on an ageing continent which is subservient to the United States.
It is interesting to note that this report reinforces our argument in Sweden against joining EMU.
Economic and monetary union is going to lead to increased demand for a more common financial and tax policy.
In paragraph N the report raises the need for a coordination of tax policies, and in paragraph 8 it talks about the harmonization of tax obligations.
The report points out the desirability of conducting a monetary policy which moderates long-term interest rates without weakening the demand for price stability.
Stevens Report (A4-0417/97) Madam President, the Stevens report draws our attention to the twin revolution facing the European financial environment in the years ahead.
This choice appears to be highly regrettable, as the developed countries are at present locked into ferocious competition for leadership in this market.
If we had encouraged the development of electronic money, we would have realized that it provides an answer to the many questions that the single currency is intended to solve, notably problems of foreign exchange for people travelling from country to country.
Hence, the single-currency mistake may well delay the revolution in electronic money in Europe, for the sake of a single currency which will, with hindsight, be seen for the illusion it is.
Since Sweden is not going to participate in the introduction of EMU, we have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
As a consequence, the single currency provides an ideal opportunity for the greater use of electronic transactions and smart cards.
However, it should be acknowledged that despite the benefits of the single currency, some consumers are considerably apprehensive.
Nor does the report mention the high conversion costs which the introduction of a new currency involves with regard to the conversion of vending machines, computer systems etc.
The Pérez Royo report presents the consumers with a balance sheet of the costs and benefits of the euro, but is short on inspiration.
In practice, the personal benefits are apparent only for persons living on national borders (some 40 million out of around 370 million across Europe) and for people who frequently travel as part of their work.
The same applies to the 'easy comparison of prices of goods and services in the various Member States' , as the Pérez Royo report puts it.
Finally, the report cites a third advantage: the low interest rates resulting from a sound monetary policy.
On this point, the sales pitch needs to be rewritten, because this benefit, although attractive at the time of Maastricht, seems to be somewhat off the point today, when interest rates have fallen to a very low level.
As the rapporteur has emphasized, we have every right to expect many benefits from the single currency, and one in particular: increased transparency in the pricing of the various goods and services in the Member States.
On the other hand, consumers who go to another Member State will benefit from the elimination of foreign exchange costs.
Moving over to the euro will actually result in fundamental changes in the lives of each and every one of the consumers in the Union.
We must bear in mind the emotion and affection felt for their national currency by citizens in their respective Member States.
The fact that some may, during the transition period, have access to the euro on the financial markets and in the stock market, at a time when other citizens are unable to do so, may give rise to a certain frustration, and the feeling that there is a two-speed currency.
The report before us today lays particular emphasis on the directions we need to go in, and on the measures which are absolutely essential.
Secondly, like the rapporteur, I believe that the dual price display system of the euro alongside national currencies should be introduced as soon as possible in the retail trading environment.
We should accustom our citizens to think in euro terms.
Thirdly, during the transitional period we need to pay close attention to keeping down expenses related to currency conversion between national currencies.
In this respect my wish is, as has been emphasized by the rapporteur, that the Commission should propose regulations laying down that the conversion of bank notes from national currency into euros should be cost-free for citizens.
However, the European Parliament does not need to be persuaded on this issue.
Educational institutions also have a role to play, and I believe we could do much more by way of providing information in our schools and colleges.
Consumer confidence is vital to the success of the single currency.
We in the Swedish Left Party have voted against this report.
We are opponents of EMU and the introduction of a single currency.
For my part, I would wish to comment on two particular aspects.
We all agree in saying that one of the conditions of the successful move to the single currency is to make sure, as soon as we can, that a maximum number of consumers uses the euro in the first stage, which in practice means having a euro-denominated bank account, using euro cheques, making bank transfers in euros from 1 January 1999.
In Luxembourg, the banks have announced that the necessary conversions of the Luxembourg franc into euros, and vice versa, will take place free of charge.
I do not know what is happening elsewhere, but this example should be followed everywhere.
Furthermore, from 1999 to 2002, the costs of foreign exchange transactions within the union area should be minimal.
However, it would be good for euro users to be convinced here and now that the new currency is more advantageous than the old system.
Finally, it is important to say from now on that the conversion of national fiduciary currency into euros after 1 January 2002 should take place at no cost to users.
Even if the expenses caused by moving over to monetary union are to be borne in one way or another, success in monetary union terms depends on the very widespread exemption of final users from such charges.
The principle of getting those who actually use the currency involved in the information exercise, at the grass roots of the economy, is also particularly important.
After all the political and rather theoretical considerations, we will need to get down to practical considerations, and be as concrete as possible, in order to anchor the euro firmly in everyone's consciousness, and to elaborate a new common monetary culture.
It makes a contribution to highlighting the benefits from the introduction of the euro which are directly tangible to consumers.
Finally, the fall in interest rates caused by healthier public finances and by a well-balanced monetary policy will give a vital boost to investment in Europe, which is a source of employment.
Having said that, for a smooth passage to the euro, consumers need to be properly informed, and in particular prepared to think in euros.
Similarly, he wishes a special emphasis to be laid on training in schools.
The rapporteur recommends that the conversion of notes and coins in the national currency into euro notes and coins should be free of charge for the citizens.
But, of course, the consumers and citizens of the European Union also need to get used to using the euro.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur when he calls for better transitional arrangements and, for example, recommends that invoices be written in both euros and the national currencies.
Rapid and determined strides towards unilateralism have also been taken in the field of defence and in the choice of the new and excluded European members of NATO, as well as in the failure to take concrete measures to give body to the European pillar of NATO, in spite of the general commitments made in Berlin.
In the economic field, there is the de facto maintenance of barriers to the development of trade in practically all sectors, in spite of the general commitments made with regard to the dismantling of the "Buy American' Act.
Finally, we have condemned the determination to confer an extraterritorial character on some American legislation, such as the Helms-Burton and Amato-Kennedy Acts, and we have called on the Commission to take the firmest stance possible.
The European Union is a construction sui generis formed by Member States who maintain very substantial national prerogatives in the field of foreign policy.
In spite of the disparity in economic situation and differences in unemployment levels between the United States and the European Union, the European Union is at present the leading regional partner of the United States in terms of trade and investment - if we exclude the sales of subsidiaries - and the only partner with whom it has a balanced trading relationship.
The flow of American investments into Europe is also continuing at a very high level.
The concept of free trade is perhaps not ideally suited to the transatlantic context, as the tariff barriers existing between the United States and Europe are the expression of interests of a social and political importance which is not necessarily commensurate with the economic benefits which would arise from their elimination.
The Commission is not always best placed to formulate such objectives, as the priorities are largely dominated by the institutional aspects of free trade.
For this reason, the contribution from the business environment is in our view a critical component of transatlantic dialogue.
We should not, Mr President, fear to undertake substantial, vigorous, forthright and concrete dialogue with our partners, and we should not limit ourselves to agreed topics, on which consensus is easily obtained, but should deal with delicate matters in a spirit of complete frankness.
It is only on such a condition that the Americans will show any sustainable interest in transatlantic dialogue.
There is no joint treaty between the European Union and the United States, desirable as I would consider that to be.
This also concerns our cooperation with our American colleagues in Congress.
But I am also thinking about all the forms of cooperation and coordination which the various Directorates-General have set up by way of agreements with their American colleagues.
It provides for close economic and political cooperation, and we have a sort of flagship in the form of the Transatlantic Business Dialogue, which really has achieved excellent preparatory work in policy terms.
However, I would like to ask the Commission as part of the current study of trade barriers between the EU and the US also to look at a model for the Transatlantic Market Place and to bring a report on this before the European Parliament in the coming year.
The European Union maintains a high profile in Washington and New York but, except for occasional visits to the West Coast, there is no presence there.
Compare Florida, Texas, Alaska, Minnesota and California; they are very different worlds.
Fortunately the signs that emerged from the 1995 Summit Meeting in Madrid between President Clinton, Mr González and Mr Santer were that enhanced cooperation between Europe and the US, rather than rivalry and the crushing of efforts, can strengthen the institutions and the conditions of international law and order to everyone's advantage.
And over and above the smoothing out of the current economic problems in which these contrasts are revealed, it will emphasize the tremendous importance assumed by the general framework which must contain long-term efforts for an honourable understanding, from the other side of the Atlantic as well.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the new world geopolitical framework following the fall of the Berlin Wall, relations between the United States and Europe can and should be strengthened.
There is therefore a convergence of global interests between the United States and the European Union, which we can try to rebalance in a more united fashion, and which should not encounter obstacles in the bi- or multilateral disputes connected with specific economic interests of the two parties.
It is extremely important that we remain consistent in the line of our policy with regard to the US.
We must seize the opportunities which these instruments offer.
The Liberals argue for a strengthening of the relationship between this House and the United States Congress on the subject of human rights.
Individual attempts from both sides to regulate the arms trade will have more chance of success if they are attuned.
I call on the British Presidency to include this topic in the transatlantic dialogue.
To conclude, Mr President, the Liberal Group has submitted a fair few amendments, and I hope these amendments will be approved.
Mr President, the overall clarity, depth of analysis and foresight of these reports on the communication from the Commission on Europe and the United States are such as to overcome some of our initial reservations and objections.
The remedy suggested the urgent need to rethink, on more equal terms and on more serviceable parameters, the great design of a properly functioning partnership between Europe and the United States of America: particularly at the present juncture where the dogma of globalization is producing social and economic upheavals; the Asiatic flu is turning into pneumonia for the financial markets of the world and the usual formula of privatizing profits and socializing losses through the International Monetary Fund does not seem to work and presents costs unacceptable not only to Europe but also to the United States Congress.
The Souchet report should be highly commended for its criticism of some egregious cases of American unilateralism in many fields that are already regulated by international agreements or where cooperation with other partners should have been the order of the day.
The most ominous case is the arbitrary and unilateral decision by Congress, accepted by the Administration, to cancel a large part of United States arrears in financial contributions to the United Nations and to subject its operations to the control of American institutions like the General Accounting Office (GAO).
This is, of course, the work of Senator Jessie Helms of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The main purpose of the amendments we are presenting is to formulate unequivocal European support for the alternative reform of the United Nations promoted by the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, to preserve independence in the universal role of the organization as enshrined in its own Charter.
The WTO is in urgent need of social and ecological restructuring in view of its new areas of work, and must be made transparent for all members.
The NTA could do some useful preparatory work in view of the forthcoming ministerial conference.
State regulation mechanisms relating to human rights must also remain a legal option.
As I have already said, human rights should have priority over business interests.
It is misleading to give the impression that the freedom to choose between 27 different kinds of headache pills is the same thing as the freedom to opt for an affordable health care system with equal and unrestricted access for all.
The amendment to Mr Souchet's report invites the United States to abolish the death penalty, not that the death penalty is incompatible with democracy - I believe that, and we say in the amendment that it is important to emphasize it - but because the abolition of the death penalty would be an extension of the sphere of fundamental rights, and it would be desirable for our American friends to integrate this into their constitution, which remains an example of democracy.
There are ten or twelve states in the United States which have abolished the death penalty, and here we would need to go down a more difficult road, namely to favour not only investment by our enterprises, but also the presence of our institutions and of representations from our Member States, and through these representations from our regions, promote cultural and economic relationships with those states which have abolished the death penalty, in order to make others understand that abolition is a matter of importance to us Europeans.
The United States safeguarded the defence of freedom in western Europe.
A greater contribution of European nations to the security of our continent is best achieved by transforming the Western European Union into a European pillar within NATO.
In France, the self-proclaimed inheritors of General de Gaulle, just as they have rallied to Eurofederalism, now wish to place the French army under US command, at a time when the Soviet threat has disappeared.
Thorès and Marchais went to Moscow for their orders.
Hue now goes to Washington.
Today, in addition to its goods, the US is exporting all its worst aspects into our countries, although the real American people reject them: fast food, rap, ethnic bands, and to sum it up in a word, the 'raptaglang' culture.
Permit me to say that with our Latin sisters, Spain, Portugal and Italy, France must take the lead in this policy, which is based on both reason and the heart.
From this standpoint, no-one has the right to oppose the bridging of the Atlantic, if indeed there is to be a common perception of viable development and social cohesion, promotion of peace and democracy, equality of the sexes, guarantees of prosperity and security in the world, progress in science and technology, and protection of life and the environment.
Finally, I would like to say that Parliamentary control should be exercised in matters relating to the relationship between and to cooperation between Europe and the United States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the two rapporteurs for their reports.
We are the most important investors in each other's markets, and the European Union and the US have derived the greatest benefit from the liberal world order.
Conversely, we have had ample opportunity in recent months to witness the smugness and even arrogance with which the US Congress in particular approaches important decisions on foreign trade policy, without caring a jot about what the rest of the world thinks.
I believe that we should realize that with 370 million consumers and with the interests that the US has in Europe we can take a firmer line than in the past and say quite brutally what our interests are, and not be too hasty to compromise, which gets us nowhere fast.
Mr President, George Washington bequeathed to his countrymen the principle of not allowing anyone to become involved in their internal affairs, and not becoming involved in the affairs of the rest of the world.
There is a proper emphasis on Europe's obligation to express its opposition to the one-sided way in which the new members of NATO were chosen, to the unwillingness of the United States to sign the Ottawa Declaration on landmines, to the undermining of the UN on the part of Congress, to laws such as the Helms-Burton and d'Amato-Kennedy Acts, as well as to the unwillingness of the United States to accept the decisions taken for the protection of the environment.
The crucial point to which the European Commission is now called upon to address itself is the demand to wipe out this imbalance at all levels of EU-US cooperation, as far as possible of course.
And, if it is unavoidable, at least at this historic conjuncture and until further orders, that the United States must take precedence world-wide - and we do not know what will happen as the next century approaches - at least Europe must at this moment in time be able to have the decisive word in matters concerning its own affairs and play a greater role at a global level.
The EU and the US together must take the main responsibility for the future of humanity.
Mr President, if there is to be a developing partnership between the United States and the European Union, we have to recognize that in many fields, the Union has acted with angelic sweetness with regard to what must be more properly named the American determination to achieve hegemony.
The United States have made the World Trade Organization an instrument of the defence of the interests of their companies.
In the audio-visual field, the deficit in the European Union is continuing to worsen, and the United States are increasing their pressure.
This is the case at present with the negotiations of the AMI agreement within the framework of the OECD, which carry with them serious threats against culture in general and the audio-visual world in particular.
That is why our group is insistently demanding, on the one hand, that a true public debate be organized about these AMI negotiations, and that, on the other hand, the fields of audio-visual and intellectual property should be excluded from any possible agreement.
After the merger with McDonnell-Douglas, Boeing owns 70 % of the world market.
Contrary to the commitments given, Delta Airlines is already announcing that it will not give up its exclusive contract with Boeing.
I shall draw a conclusion from this brief examination.
We should recognize that the goodwill of national governments in the European Union and that of the American administration has ensured that developments have been generally positive.
However, in Europe there remains a perception that the United States continues to dominate the relationship of what should actually be a partnership of equals.
Mr President, as probably the only Member of the European Parliament with dual residence in the US and in Europe, I would like to sound a note of warning about clichés and the arrogant assumption that Americans understand nothing about Europe.
That means fair competition in the world market on a level playing field, and it implies special responsibility for exchange rate stability between the dollar and the planned euro.
Poorly planned introduction of European monetary union would result in the dollar extending its present dominant position still further.
Mr President, George Bernard Shaw once remarked that England and America are two countries divided by a common language.
I suspect that part of the reason for Turkey's total over-reaction to the conclusions of the Luxembourg Summit was that it has been encouraged by some American politicians, at least, to believe that it would get more out of the European Union.
We should be operating in a security situation which is multinational and international, and not simply bilateral.
But for that to happen, Europe has got to stop spending so much time developing strong rhetoric and a little bit more time acting in the foreign affairs field.
In this century, transatlantic relations have been notable for the United States of America playing a decisive role in preserving order in Europe.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on producing an excellent report.
As an Irishman I am mindful of the work carried out by the United States in promoting peace and stability in the world, not least in its support for the peace process in Ireland.
For example, the European consumer is firmly opposed to the use of hormones in meat production and European agriculture has adopted its practices accordingly.
There are differences of emphasis on the use of biotechnology in food production also.
America always seems to be very well - if not too well - briefed in relation to what is happening in European agriculture, and I am not always sure if we in Europe are aware of what is happening at all times on that side of the Atlantic.
The EU represents 58 % of foreign investments in the United States, and 44 % of American investments are made in the European Union.
American and European citizens should be much better informed on the importance of our trade relations for both economies.
Consultation at government level is essential, but without support amongst the public and their representatives - the United States Congress and the European Parliament - this will not produce any results.
The building of bridges in the context of the New Transatlantic Agenda, as aimed at and already achieved by the Ties project, involves the public directly in transatlantic relations.
This hegemony is fuelled less by the feeling of power of the United States, by its nuclear arsenal, by its global presence, and much more by the inferiority complex of the European Union which is due to the fact that top-ranking leaders in Europe operate as employees of the United States, by the inability of the European Union to fashion an identity of its own and to formulate a strategy of its own on the basis of which it can have talks with - and not be compared with - the United States.
I would like to hope that the European Union will have a stronger presence and, Mr President, I think that the absence of the Council in such a serious political matter shows the seriousness with which the European Union takes this issue.
Mr President, we are discussing the transatlantic agenda, a broad spectrum agenda which was adopted in December 1995, when President Clinton came to Madrid and identified 150 questions in the framework of relations between Europe and the United States.
We all support balanced relationships, but these should be balanced by setting aside the imperialism of the d'Amato Act, the imperialism of the Helms-Burton Act, without the unilateral taxing practised by the Californian state on our companies, a balance which is free of any ambiguity about Islam and the pro-Islamic nature of the foreign policy of the United States, which sometimes basks in the sun of Allah.
Our civilization is a great civilization, which should enable the United States in the final analysis to avoid the fate which is in store for them, the fate of being the only nation in history to have passed in one century from the stage of non-existence in legal terms into decline, without having gone through the intermediate stage of civilization.
I would like to address some comments to the Commission.
To those people who seem to say that we are slaves of the United States, I say please read the information and understand the crucial role that we are playing in pushing forward this agenda.
But I want to refer to a couple of other issues.
For example, the collapse of the financial markets in the Far East will mean that the stable and balanced trading relationship between Europe and the United States is going to be absolutely pivotal over the next few years.
The Americans, who have perhaps been turning their attention to the Far East - and indeed some investors in the European Union who turned their attention to the Far East - are going to come back and rely very heavily on the stable relationship between the United States and the European Union.
Within about 4 or 5 years, 40 % of all invoicing in world trade will be in the euro.
There is absolutely no reason why representatives of Congress and the European Parliament should not be involved twice a year in the summit.
If we do that, then it means some of the nonsense that we have had out of Congress on Helms-Burton and the ILSA legislation can be countered because Congress representatives would have to sit at the table and take part in that dialogue.
Let us, in May, invite Members of Congress and of this House to the transatlantic summit meeting in London and make sure this special relationship extends beyond just the Commission, the Council and the administration to involve the legislators, too.
Mr President, the end of the Cold War and the growing strength of the European Union inevitably has led to a redefinition of the relationship between ourselves and the United States.
Nowhere is it more true than in the case of my own country where the US has consistently supported the Irish and British Governments in their quest to find a peaceful resolution to the age-old conflict in Northern Ireland.
In the past, for perfectly understandable reasons, Europe was overly dependent on the United States and, as a consequence, our independence and freedom to act differently from our US allies was seriously compromised.
The EU cannot simply play the role of a subordinate paymaster.
Furthermore, given the United States policy of reducing its military presence in Europe and other parts of the world, we have to reassess the new European role and responsibility.
Let me conclude by paying tribute to the two rapporteurs for producing these reports and contributing to this debate.
That is why it is a good thing that the rapporteurs, Mr Souchet and Mrs Mann, emphasize active interpretation of the Transatlantic Agenda.
The European Parliament resides in Brussels in a building which, in its design, at least to my mind, has clearly been inspired by the Capitol in Washington.
The relations between the United States and Europe still constitute a substantial basis for stability in the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, the debate on transatlantic relations always contains elements of great political interest.
We all recognize the important role the United States has played in the defence of democracy.
We have to realize that the European Union has a certain disadvantage compared with the United States when it comes to making decisions in exceptional situations.
It is difficult to implement trade defence mechanisms in response to external pressures, as we have found, but it is not impossible.
What can never be included in this agenda, but has sometimes been suggested, is the supposed distribution of political power, in the form of zones of influence, so that South and Central America becomes yet another area under the clear influence of the United States.
Mr President, having first congratulated the rapporteurs, as my colleagues have done, I want to say that we are all aware of the European Union's real importance on the international stage, and of the inadequacies in this area which the Treaty of Amsterdam has not yet been able to rectify.
While we in the European Union are discussing our positions in strict and long-winded procedures, the United States is capable of making an overnight decision and summoning the conflicting parties, whether it is a question of Bosnia or, as is due to happen next week, the main players in the Middle East peace process.
We have the example of certain mergers and concentrations currently being examined by the European Commission's Directorate-General IV: the codes of conduct for the computerized booking systems in the case of American Airlines, or the recent dispute between a major energy company within the European Union and the American giant, Arko.
I hope that there will be a sensible conclusion to our debate.
Mr President, like others I should like to congratulate both our rapporteurs who have contributed excellent documents to this debate.
Erika Mann's report is much more concerned with the philosophy of partnership, with political and economic matters where the European Union has the capacity to act and where we are, in effect, building a new transatlantic bridge for the twenty-first century.
The Transatlantic Business Dialogue is moving towards the idea of the new transatlantic marketplace.
As speakers have said, we shall next be dealing with the monetary dialogue, to try to get a new consensus between domestic and international monetary policies on both sides of the Atlantic.
Both EMU and enlargement of the EU and NATO are going to bring a new dimension to transatlantic relations.
We have to have an effective transatlantic partnership in the twenty-first century based on a coherent institutional framework involving greater parliamentary cooperation and the concept of the new transatlantic marketplace.
It is both desirable and necessary that Europe should play an independent security policy role.
A more effective common foreign and security policy for the EU Member States is also important here in the context of strengthening transatlantic relations.
The second point that particularly concerns me about relations between Europe and the United States is that Austria put a very valuable art collection, which belongs to a foundation, at America's disposal.
There are various issues that we need to resolve internally in a debate here in Europe, before we start adopting positions in our discussions with our American partners.
I certainly do not mean that this debate presented a picture of unanimity, but nevertheless, chiefly because of experience with the Transatlantic Business Dialogue, I have the impression that many of those who have spoken here today have done so without making due allowance for the extent of agreement achieved in the discussions which have taken place between the executives.
Considering that our discussions in the Transatlantic Business Dialogue were actually held with representatives of the American executive, it seems to have been more of a Congress problem than an American executive problem.
But they finally accepted it when I explained to Tom Fowley, who was speaker at the time, that there was only one political difference between myself as the chairman of the Liberal Group and Guido Fanti, namely that Mr Fanti was much more pro-NATO than I was!
We cannot say that the Americans have to bow to multilateral commitments but when the same commitments work to our disadvantage try to deploy high-flown arguments about consumer and health protection and so on, and shirk our commitments.
A third very important point, in my view, is that we have a lot more catching up to do on mutual understanding than a lot of people realize.
As a matter of fact, that also applies to the culture of democracy.
I remember very well how long it took us here in the European Parliament, and in Europe in general, to agree on a common approach to the death penalty.
I remember very clearly the bitter debates that we waged in the European Parliament in those days, with Members from Member States who claimed that they represented an extremely high level of democracy and culture - and still do - whilst at the same time, they maintained in all seriousness that the death penalty was not only compatible with that high level, but even an expression of it!
In many cases - for purely political reasons that I do not wish to criticize, I am just commenting on the end result - we are not in a position to supply a military presence to end a conflict that cannot be resolved in any other way.
Boeing-MacDonnell/Douglas is another case in point.
Just the opposite, in fact: we have initiated a new policy in this area, clearly recognizing that it has not been possible to get this ratified in the US so far.
Mr President, I just wish to say briefly that I realize Commissioner Bangemann could not give a clear response to my request regarding the transatlantic summit meeting.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Foodstuffs The next item is the report (A4-0401/97) by Mr Lannoye, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposals for Council Directives relating to foodstuffs intended for human consumption.
I would remind you that the Commission's objective, when it presented the five proposed modifications, was to modernize two directives dating back to the 1970s, on the basis of a single principle: specifying only those things which are essential to ensure the free circulation of the products in question, in particular sugar, honey, fruit juice, jellies and preserves, and totally or partially dehydrated preserved milk.
I am putting my finger on a number of gaps or weaknesses in the texts, which have given rise to amendments broadly adopted by the Commission, the overall report having been adopted unanimously.
The first comment relates to information.
As with chocolate, in the case of fruit juice and preserved milk, we are confronted with a situation of differences in national legislation, particularly as regards the possible addition of vitamins.
The second comment relates to the quality of products.
This second comment also relates to fruit juice.
Finally, I insist on a more important point, as this is the matter of a debate which has already stirred this Parliament on a number of occasions - the problem of honey.
I would remind you that half the honey consumed in Europe is imported honey, which therefore comes from outside the European Union, under conditions of quality which are absolutely not guaranteed.
First of all, what does he think about what I consider to be some of the most important amendments - namely Amendments Nos 19 and 28 on honey, and Amendment No 42 on fruit juice?
Secondly, what is his position on the legal basis proposed, in the knowledge that several colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party have put down amendments with the aim of modifying Article 100a?
Personally, this modification is acceptable to me, but all the information at our disposal to date indicates that it is coming up against great hostility from the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his - what shall we call it? - fivefold report, and I would like to wish the Commissioner a happy New Year.
I would like to ask the Commissioner a question in connection with the legal basis.
In our group we were a little surprised, Mrs Schleicher, that these amendments appeared during the discussion in the plenary session.
But do not worry; we are not opposed to these amendments a priori , but we do have a question, because this matter has been dealt with principally by this Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Both have come to the decisive answer that in these five cases which we are discussing today, the correct legal basis ought to be Article 43.
I am under the impression, Mrs Schleicher, Mr Lannoye, ladies and gentlemen, that this problem is like the one concerning Article 43 or Article 100a.
The problem is that Article 43 is not subject to a codecision procedure, and sadly enough, the Treaty of Amsterdam has brought no solace.
Nonetheless we do not want to condemn the amendments.
The cohesion here in this Parliament shows a marked contrast to our lack of cohesion when it comes to chocolate.
When it comes to chocolate, this Parliament is suddenly very modest.
Let us hope that in addition to the amendments surrounding the legal basis, the Commission will also approve the other amendments.
Harmonization directives should guarantee the free movement of the products in question.
The Commission has taken Article 43 as the legal basis.
I therefore hope Parliament adopts this report and that it also has an effect on the EU's official policy.
I hope, Mr President, that we will return to the 1995 majority of the great party of the bees.
Mr President, Commissioner, over the last few months I have discussed legislation on foodstuffs with people from a wide range of areas and Member States, and have been unable to find anyone who could see why chicory extracts should be covered by a vertical directive with a different legal basis as compared with jams or fruit juices or sugars.
So I think we need to look at the legal basis a lot more closely than just simply saying that these are products derived from primary agricultural products.
Unfortunately, in some Member States there is honey on the market which is up to 80 % adulterated.
We owe this not only to consumers, but also to those producers who rely on producing quality products which are naturally somewhat more expensive than mass-produced food.
As far as sugars are concerned, Amendments Nos 1 and 4 would reintroduce regulations on the range of prepacks.
You were recently involved in the conciliation procedure concerning the directive on unit price labelling.
Amendments Nos 7 and 8 seek to reduce the residual sulphur dioxide content in certain sugars from 15 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg of dry matter.
This demonstrates that there is a continuity in the representation of important interests in Parliament.
However, Amendment No 19 addresses a fundamental question, which Mrs Lulling also raised.
It deals with compulsory labelling of the country of origin of honey, regardless of whether it was produced in the EU or in a third country.
The country of origin of honey can be useful information for the consumer.
We can accordingly accept this amendment, and also Amendments Nos 53, 64, 65, 67 and 68, but not No 62.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0001/98).
As the author is not present, Question No 44 lapses.
Mr President, before answering the question, as this is the first time I have attended Parliament in 1998, allow me to wish all Members a prosperous year.
The recent proposals submitted by a Member State during the Abidjan Conference on Aids held in December 1997 on setting up a fund to improve access to treatment for persons contaminated with the HIV/Aids virus in developing countries have the merit of starting a discussion on a real problem.
In fact, at the moment there is an obvious lack of justice between taking responsibility for Aids sufferers in northern countries, where anti-retrovirus medicines are available, and, at the other extreme, in the southern countries, where most sufferers do not have access to basic health care.
However, setting up a fund of this type raises a series of very important questions that need to be answered.
According to the request put forward by the European Council in Luxembourg last December, the Commission's services are going to study ways of setting up a treatment solidarity fund under the aegis of the Aids-UN, intended to combat Aids in the developing countries.
The results of this study should examine the various scenarios possible and the respective consequences, as regards both ethics and fairness, and at technical, economic and financial levels.
The first question is that of the size and access to this fund, taking into account the annual cost of treatment for tri-therapy, which is estimated at $10, 000 - $20, 000.
A second question relates to the ways of gaining access to the treatment, to the extent that there is a real danger in setting up a parallel system aimed solely at Aids sufferers, which would be ineffective and onerous at the same time, and could prove counterproductive for other sufferers with malaria, tuberculosis, measles, and so on.
Beyond that, the necessary accompanying measures for anti-retrovirus therapy still do not exist in most African countries, such as the provision of laboratories and training for medical and paramedical staff.
Thank you very much, Mr President, and can I join Commissioner Pinheiro in wishing you and he both a happy New Year.
Can I also thank the Commissioner for what was a very good and full response to that question which went a long way towards meeting the reasons for which it was tabled.
There is concern amongst non-governmental organizations as well as several Members, and we will be partially reassured by your answer about the study.
As it stands, the vertical approach in favour of people with Aids as proposed by one of our Member States could seriously jeopardize existing public health systems by creating parallel systems.
I would just like to stress that broadly speaking the Commission always suggests in regard to the health sector or the health situation in developing countries that we should strive for what we call a horizontal approach.
A recent study undertaken by the Commission, the United Nations and the World Bank found a clear correlation between sexually-transmitted diseases and the transmission of the HIV virus.
That means that education and prevention are perhaps the best way in which to try to reduce the incidence of the disease, at least in Africa.
For all these reasons, we hope that the study which the Commission will undertake together with experts from the Member States and other countries that might help us will be of great assistance either to formulate a new strategy or to confirm the one we have been following.
Mr President, on 18 November the Commission adopted a draft Council regulation that established a mechanism for Commission intervention to abolish certain obstacles to trade.
This draft answers a request made by the European Council in Amsterdam last June, recording its conclusions on the action plan for the single market.
According to the proposed intervention mechanism, the Commission will ask the Member State in question, by means of a decision, to take the necessary measures to end an obvious, classified and unjustified obstruction to the acceptance of Articles 30 and 36 of the Treaty, seriously hampering the freedom of movement of goods in the internal market.
I would add that, based on past experience, the cases most representative of this situation might be, for example: the untimely and unjustified prohibition of importing products from other Member States; measures establishing or restoring import formalities, such as licences or technical approvals; destruction of large quantities of products from other Member States, for example, on the roads, in shopping centres or in warehouses; or even the immobilization of products by not permitting access to the national territory or movement within it, for example, blockading means of transport at the borders, on the motorways, or at the ports or airports.
That, Mr President, is the answer I would like to give the honourable Member.
I think you would acknowledge, Commissioner, that the Court of Justice decision against the French Government was a landmark decision which will help you pursue the policy you agreed at the Amsterdam Summit.
It will enter into immediate legal effect in the Member State concerned.
Mr President, I would like to say that, for the Commission too, the right to strike is inalienable and that under no circumstances could the Commission permit any exception to a fundamental right held by the workers in a democratic state, on account of the single market.
For that reason, I can specifically say that under no circumstances will the right to strike be affected by this regulation, or any other regulation derived from it, for similar reasons.
A recent survey conducted by the Commission on the regulation and practices in the Member States of the European Community as regards the suitability of blood and plasma donors and the screening of their donations confirms that all Member States routinely screen for antibodies against the hepatitis C virus, the human immunodeficiency virus type I and II and the surface antigen of hepatitis B virus.
With regard to the increased concern that blood and blood products may transmit the agent responsible for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a distinction first has to be made between classical or sporadic CJD and the new variant of this disease, nvCJD, which has been strongly associated with BSE.
The advice that has been given to the Commission from the relevant scientific committees, in particular the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products, on the risk of these forms of CJD, is that there are no specific grounds for possible recall or quarantine of batches of plasma-derived products.
As regards nvCJD, there are indeed concerns that a new and additional risk may be posed by blood and blood products prepared from donations from infected donors.
Member States are already in the process of complying with this advice.
The United Kingdom also follows the advice of its Spongiform Encephalopathy Committee in this respect.
Moreover, a rapid alert defective product recall procedure is in place in the Community.
Members of the European Parliament will be interested to learn that an ad hoc specialist workshop on nvCJD will be held on 15 January under the auspices of the CPMP.
I hope that this unsatisfactory situation will change with the coming into force of the Amsterdam Treaty and Article 152, in particular.
I wanted to give as full a reply as possible.
But, certainly, preventive measures are being considered and being put in place in the Member States.
We are talking here about the donors, the question of screening, evaluation and testing and also the question of research and diagnostic tests.
The Commission is only able to intervene directly for medicinal products that have received a Community marketing authorization through the centralized procedure.
No medicinal products derived from blood or plasma have received such authorization to date.
There we act under Article 12 of 75/3/90/EEC, whereby we can propose, via the comitology procedure, a decision to withdraw the marketing authorization and therefore withdraw the product.
The Stability Pact, approved by your Parliament, is neither more nor less than the translation of the provisions of the Treaty of the European Union.
Adopted by all the Member States, its aim is to ensure the proper operation of economic and monetary union, by specifying the operational procedures of Article 103 and Article 104c of the Treaty.
I would add that it is also a credibility factor for the euro.
The creation of healthy public finances is a prior condition for benefiting from low interest rates, which favour investment, and hence growth and the creation of employment.
I would add that according to Commission forecasts, Europe will be creating four million jobs in the three years between 1997 and 1999.
I asked this question to find out whether you have discussed this difference between a real deficit and a nominal deficit.
I believe the experience of these last ten or fifteen years proves the contrary.
When the public deficit reaches excessively high levels - and above 3 % it is excessive - we witness firstly a significant increase in the level of debt, and secondly a rise in interest rates.
When we note that some eighteen months or one year ago in Europe, 50 % of household savings was being used to finance public deficits, you have to come to the conclusion that savings would be better employed in financing productive investment.
And today in Greece the main news item is the suicide of someone, 60 years old, who left a note which said "I am committing suicide because I am unemployed' .
I am convinced that the euro will create an economic framework which will generate more growth and hence more employment in Europe.
In the final analysis, 1997 enabled us to make a breakthrough, at least at the conceptual level.
The November European Council in Luxembourg set up a new method.
That is an objective fixed at the Community level.
For this reason, social dialogue is an important factor in the long-term success of the fight against unemployment.
I think we must remain vigilant in the face of this crisis.
Firstly, because in terms of the real economy, we are only slightly dependent on Asia, which absorbs no more than 9 % of our exports.
Interest rates have never been so low.
They have in fact never been so positive.
That explains why the capital and, very likely, the financial markets realize that, in the move to reallocate assets and funds, the direction is towards the countries which are the most credible and in the soundest health, that is to say, the United States and Europe.
The Eurocouncil was effectively set up by Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Luxembourg last December.
Ministers of states participating in the euro zone can meet among themselves in an informal manner to discuss questions relating to the specific responsibilities which they share in the field of the single currency.
Additionally, in line with the wish expressed by your Parliament, the Commission will participate in all the meetings of the Eurocouncil and, as the case may be, the European Central Bank may be invited to these meetings.
The same applies to everything relating to the single market, tax harmonization or social problems.
It is therefore necessary to reinforce our coordination and common action.
Personally I do not believe that there can be any question on this point, because it means that, as part of the euro, one is obliged to follow monetary policy, but without having taken part in its definition.
Even if the national administrations of countries outside the euro allow them to work in euros, will they nevertheless not have to bear extra costs?
Indeed, in one way or another somebody will have to bear the costs of the foreign exchange risk between any euro and non-euro currency.
However, many ideas concerning the possibility of introducing other criteria have been put forward during the debate on the future development of EMU.
Indeed, there are criteria, for the achievement and proper operation of economic and monetary union.
The criteria for passing into economic and monetary union are defined in Article 109j of the Treaty of the European Union.
I would remind you that those criteria must enable the Commission and the Council to check whether, and I quote: ' a high degree of sustainable convergence has been achieved between the various Member States '.
Employment policy is furthermore the priority policy of the European Union.
The best proof of that is the return to growth in Europe, which has gone hand in hand with the reduction of inflation.
I remind you that in 1996, we had 2.6 % inflation and a growth rate of 1.8 %.
In 1997, inflation fell to 2.1 %, the growth rate rose to 2.6 %, and inflation should broadly remain stable in 1998, with growth rising to 3 %.
The social partners have fully understood this strategy and they support it; witness their repeated joint statements, in particular those that they issued at the last European Council.
Only sustained growth and controlled inflation will provide an appropriate framework for job creation, notwithstanding that the fight against unemployment requires the introduction of other measures of a more fundamental, I might say more structural, nature.
This is the way opened by the European Council in Luxembourg in November, and which I mentioned earlier in response to a previous question.
I would like there to be more balance between price stability and growth.
But the balance between growth targets and price stability targets should be better.
Very quickly, my answer is that as far as I am concerned, the convergence criteria or stability criteria are not obstacles to growth.
Public opinion in Europe will not accept the new process, the new events, if it is not explained to them.
I believe that a very substantial explanation effort must be planned.
It reflects the approach which was successfully used for economic and monetary union, an objective-based approach.
I wish only to note - as he cited the example of the United States - that the United States had set themselves the target of a balanced budget for the beginning of the next decade, and that from this year on they will be in equilibrium and probably in a budget surplus.
This is another example which tends to show that there is no incompatibility between a balanced budget, growth and job creation.
I agree with the Commissioner that good public finances and low interest rates are good for growth.
I also believe that through currency stability the euro is good for growth and employment in the EU, particularly in the euro countries.
Personally, I do not believe it is possible, in the medium or long-term, to contrast the policy of the Federal Bank in the United States with the policy of the Bundesbank in Germany.
If you look at the figures over a period of 10, 15 or 20 years, you will see that in the final analysis their results are not very different, even if at certain times differences in appreciation may effectively appear.
What we can say is that growth is an aim we pursue in conducting our economic policies, going hand in hand, at the heart of these policies, with employment.
Since the allotted time for this series of questions has now expired, Questions Nos 51 to 55 will be dealt with in writing.
However, both Parliament and the Council have decided that this was probably an experimental route and that in the future it will be better to have an overall framework - a single framework for dealing with all cultural matters.
Therefore, the proposals which the Commission is due to present shortly, which will pay special attention to music, will combine the various cultural and artistic sectors within this single framework, in accordance with the wishes of Parliament and the Council.
As regards Community assistance for music during the past few years, the honourable Member is welcome to consult the list which the Commission distributed for information purposes on the occasion of the European Parliament's hearing on that subject on 18 June.
I should also like to remind you that the Commission thinks cooperative music projects can and should be assisted, but this should depend on how far they meet the criteria of the existing Community programmes and initiatives.
The Member States are responsible for determining priorities for public assistance for musical institutions, while Community action is directed towards promoting cooperation between Member States, in accordance with Article 128 of the Treaty, and the principle of subsidiarity.
I am taking this opportunity to draw special attention to this matter, because I think we must adopt a new approach, although what we have done so far will serve as a reference.
Every two or three weeks I meet a group of representatives from the world of music, and from other cultural spheres.
For example, Mr Gutiérrez Aragón is one of the many people who have attended these meetings.
I have met about a dozen people each time, representing all the different countries.
The result of these meetings will allow us to prepare the document the Council has asked us for, and which Parliament also wants, which we must present before 1 May.
We are going to start writing the draft on 1 February, so until then we are keen to hear suggestions, especially about our planned forum.
I think the question you have raised is important, and I would like to deal with it specifically and give precise solutions once we have sketched out the framework programme, which will be finally presented on 1 May.
But I would like to ask two supplementary questions.
Mr von Habsburg, the folk music you mention is something I particularly care about.
We will bear that in mind, and as regards the programme we are going to present on 1 May, I have taken note of the wish expressed here, which I absolutely agree with.
In the codecision procedure for the amendment of the "Television without frontiers' directive, Parliament approved an amendment aimed at guaranteeing public access to specific sporting events of special importance through open-access television throughout the whole European Union.
Nevertheless, when I heard Parliament's idea of including the possibility of guaranteeing public access to such events, I thought it was interesting, and made a note of it immediately.
It was important to acknowledge in some way the opinion of those in favour of open-access retransmissions of events, but some of us (myself included) thought it was impossible to have a harmonized list of events at Community level.
For that reason, the new Directive contains provisions to guarantee that Member States can adopt measures to protect the right to information, and ensure wide public access to television coverage of national or non-national events of major importance to society.
These provisions appear in a new article of the Directive - Article 3a.
The system comprises three phases: Firstly, Member States can draw up a list of major events and adopt measures to ensure that large sections of the public are not prevented from following these events, either directly or as repeats, on open-access television.
Thirdly, Member States must ensure that the television broadcasting organizations under their jurisdiction comply with the lists of events drawn up by other Member States in accordance with this procedure.
Nevertheless, the Commission is aware that the vast majority of Member States - if not all of them - have adopted or plan to adopt measures to guarantee wide public access to television coverage of major events, and we hope to receive the relevant notifications during 1998.
I am sure that nearly all the Member States are going to do so.
The Ryder Cup which, as you know, was held in Spain for the very first time recently, is probably the only competition where almost the entire population of Europe actually cheers for Europe.
So where does the Ryder Cup fit in to this particular scenario?
Mr Cunningham, I may have my own opinion about what you are asking - I think it is an important event - but at the moment I would prefer not to answer you in a personal capacity.
And something else I think is important is that an event which is important in one country may not be so in another.
Question No 58 by Birgitta Ahlqvist (H-1009/97) Subject: Commission study on children and advertising This is the third time I have asked Commissioner Oreja a question about the study, repeatedly promised by the Commission, on the effects of advertising on minors.
Other independent studies have shown that children cannot be classified as consumers, on the grounds that they are unable, until the age of 12 on average, to distinguish an advertising message from objective information.
I should like to remind her that, in response to a petition from a delegation in the Council during the revision procedure for the "Television without frontiers' Directive, the Commission promised to carry out a study on the effect of television advertising and telesales on children, with a view to re-examining this question at the next revision of the Directive.
It is an investigation into the anti-violence chip, which is mentioned specifically in Article 22 of the new Directive.
We had to choose, and since our priority is the chip programme, the Commission will not be able to start the study in question until the beginning of 1999.
Therefore, I would hope to have results during that year, or very early in 2000 at the latest.
Question No 59 by Maj Theorin (H-0965/97) Subject: The situation in Burma The situation in Burma is very serious.
Thirdly, in November the Commission presented the Council with a proposal to postpone the high-level meeting with ASEAN, because ASEAN was insisting that Burma should be there.
I think it is an extremely positive step for us to refuse to continue to work with ASEAN until Burma's position within that group is clarified.
This is very important since there are European companies, probably also in my own country, which are currently considering whether to start investing in Burma, which would be very serious if it happened.
In the US there has been a ban on new investments since May 1997 because the situation in Burma has not changed.
I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he accepts the legitimacy of the 1990 elections in Burma in which the NLD led by Aung San Suu Kyi were the clear and legitimate winners.
If that is the case, would he agree with me that any new elections likely to be convened by the military junta in Burma would not be accepted as legitimate and therefore would never be accepted as capable of overriding the 1990 results?
The answer is obvious.
Question No 61 by Jörn Svensson (H-0998/97) Subject: Human rights in Colombia The Convivir forces in Colombia, together with out-and-out paramilitary groups, constitute a very serious problem.
Convivir is involving civilians in an armed conflict and is responsible for serious human rights violations.
Furthermore, given the assassination of at least 19 Colombian human rights activists during 1997, and that human rights organizations play a vital role in combatting the problem of impunity, will the Commission step up its political and financial support to these groups in Colombia?
The Commission shares Parliament's concern over the human rights situation in Colombia.
I think there is widespread recognition of the attitude taken towards this issue by the Commission and the European Union in general.
We do not consider any paramilitary activities (specifically including this type of cooperative) to form part of the normal responsibility of a state to guarantee a normal situation, in whichever country.
In autumn 1997 I had cause to criticize a Parliamentary resolution which gave onesided praise to the peace initiative of the Columbian Government without taking a position on the fact that at the same time the Government in Columbia was also bombing civilian targets.
No, no, my position is still the same.
I agree with that European Parliamentary resolution.
In Colombia, which is a country I know well and where we are doing a lot of work in the area of human rights, those rights have been violated by the Government.
Yes, I realize you do not like that answer, but they are all responsible for the situation.
I agree with the Commissioner that we are all responsible for our own actions, but he seems to have made general statements of concern about human rights in Colombia without responding to any of the specific questions put to him.
In my opinion, to imagine that it is possible to combat paramilitaries or the paramilitary phenomenon - in Colombia, Algeria or anywhere else - by financing or not financing NGOs, reveals a naivety beyond all political discussion.
Since the time allocated to questions to the Commission has now expired, Questions Nos 63 to 82 will be dealt with in writing.
Excess ozone in the ambient air gives rise to substantial risks and health problems.
In France, a regional health observatory undertook a study in the Paris region which showed that between 1987 and 1992, ozone peaks resulted in an increase in medical consultations and hospitalizations for asthma, respiratory infections, respiratory conditions, eye conditions, headaches, and some deaths - rare, it is true, and among individuals who were in particularly delicate health.
The problem affects more than 400, 000 businesses, most of them small and mediumsized, which in total employ more than ten million people, with very different techniques.
The proposed directive envisages a number of solutions, subject to the choice of the enterprises.
Finally, instead of applying the limit values set out in Annex 3, Member States may introduce national plans which lead to the same results overall, but by using other means.
But this examination has given us an insight into a number of areas of imprecision, ambiguities or loopholes which justify the amendments we are proposing.
Finally, a loophole in this directive should be closed, for the directive only deals with certain industrial and handicraft activities, which are, it is true, responsible for 70 % of VOC emissions.
But 30 % of these emissions are passed over in silence, as the directive does not cover paint used in the building industry, or weekend painters doing DIY in their leisure time.
The European Commission should therefore supplement and finalize its proposal by including a real initiative covering these two sources.
This directive to control the emission of VOCs from industrial installations has the support of my group, and I would like to give my personal thanks to the rapporteur for the hard work that he has undertaken and what he has achieved so far.
It is increasingly clear that VOC emissions have an adverse impact upon human health and the environment in general, whether it is by their contribution to creating photochemical smog, ground-level ozone in our atmosphere or stimulating asthma or even cancer in our people.
As for their wider role in smaller installations, we hope the Commission will come forward as quickly as possible with a proposal to ensure that new low-solvent paints and coatings are used, and other less harmful substances are introduced.
By reducing these substances at source we can also make a major contribution to climate protection.
I would like to add to what my colleague Mr Rübig has said with the following comments.
VOC emissions in the European Union are to be reduced by 1.4 million tonnes, or about 67 %, by the year 2007.
The Commission proposal is therefore a step in the right direction.
It is the opinion of my group that the European Commission has, in other respects, submitted a proposal which is very acceptable to all sides.
Mr President, in this "packed' Chamber, I note on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party that the European jigsaw puzzle of directives which is supposed to improve air quality in Europe is slowly but surely being completed.
What is missing in the puzzle is the piece that regulates paint thinners.
We must be careful when discussing the directive for organic compounds not to reject existing successful national programmes in advance, as suggested in Amendment No 22.
My group will therefore not support Amendment No 22.
VOC emissions are far too serious in these countries.
I have heard a lot today about the problems facing industry.
I know many people whose lives have been affected by solvents.
Mr President, I want to start by congratulating Professor Cabrol on his report.
The aim of this draft directive is not to regulate the working conditions within the companies in which these organic compounds are released.
Yet I hope that obligations to reduce them will also make a contribution to combating OPS.
All the same, I would like to call on the Commission to pay attention to this problem as part of EU social policy.
I am less happy with one point in the draft resolution, namely the deletion of implementation of the reduction through national programmes.
The regulation about national plans in Article 5 of the Commission document was by no means worse than the general regulation.
Often national plans are much more effective.
These liquid chemicals have a particularly toxic effect on people and the environment.
I lay particular stress on the risks at the place of work, but also on diffused risks, particularly the effects on the reproductive system, which have until now been very widely underestimated.
Perhaps we should envisage a measure which would promote the use of low solvent-content paints, or at least less harmful solvents, involving, for example, the introduction of an eco-tax.
On consulting recent literature, I realized that in most European countries, constant franc expenses on health have increased by a factor of 3.5 over 25 years.
In the autumn of 1997, the Dutch Government took measures to protect employees in some of the sectors where thinners are used.
In other Member States, namely Sweden, Denmark and Finland, clear legislation for the protection of employees also exists.
In some countries OPS is recognized as an occupational illness, but in other Member States no attention is given to OPS.
In fact, I submitted a number of these amendments myself, and I am delighted that they have been adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
It is an opportunity that the Commission has to grasp now, in anticipation of what the Commission has yet to do between 1999 and 2003, a common programme for the illnesses related to pollution, I understand.
I also hope that the Commissioner can respond to our amendments, and I would be grateful if she could give a reply.
The main purpose of the directive is to reduce VOC emissions from a long list of industrial activities in which solvents are used.
The solvents are used, as we have heard, in paints, for cleaning, in the printing industry and for many other things.
And the proposal also allows Member States to achieve the same targets by methods which are best suited to their national conditions, and which are set out in a national plan.
The Commission has considered the 32 amendments proposed by the Committee on the Environment, and the 15 new amendments proposed by Parliament.
The result of this was that the Commission is able to accept 11 of these amendments either wholly or partly.
However, as Parliament is no doubt aware, the Council is flexible on reducing the scope of the national plans, and so the Commission can continue to work on that basis, and we will of course take it up in the continued procedure.
Amendment No 16, concerning a duty to replace R40 substances with less harmful substances as soon as possible, is not supported by the Commission because R40 substances are not sufficiently dangerous to require such measures.
The Commission believes that the very strict emission limits which have been set out for these chemicals are a sufficient incentive to seek substitutes for R40 substances.
On the other hand, the Commission is going to arrange an exchange of information, and I think we should definitely consider using information about this important aspect in this exchange of information, and so Amendment No 17 is acceptable.
Amendment No 7 is not acceptable because the Treaty already contains the necessary provisions to allow Member States to adopt more stringent requirements.
They are Amendments Nos 10 and 14.
In the other comment, Amendment No 9, the Commission is called upon to examine how plants under the threshold values set in the directive can be regulated at the EU level.
The Commission has been particularly careful to ensure that unnecessary burdens are not placed on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Consequently, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 28-30, which introduce tougher emission limits or change the scope of the proposal.
Amendments Nos 36, 37 (apart from footnote 1), 38, 42, 43, and 45-47 will either reduce the environmental protection planned in the proposal, or limit the scope of the proposal.
Thank you, Commissioner Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This proposal was examined at first reading by the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 13 November 1996.
Your rapporteur emphasized its weakness and, by agreement with some of you, suggested amendments which aimed to provide European citizens with effective protection against the hazards of infectious diseases.
Such protection requires fundamental measures which have been noted and emphasized by the European Parliament.
However, the common position which has come back to us following the second reading of 25 November 1997 is an absolute caricature of Parliament's proposals.
The Council has totally overthrown the order and content of the chapters, perhaps in the hope that we would be unable to understand what they want us to accept.
But meticulous analysis of the common position makes it clear that most of the important amendments proposed by Parliament have not been accepted.
A European Centre or a European Observatory of communicable disease should provide a synthesis of all the data provided by the various Member States.
On the contrary, we believe it is essential, if only to guarantee the establishment of quality national centres and a central coordinating organization, that specific resources be earmarked, without taking them from other public health programmes whose finances - as we have already seen - are inadequate.
In conclusion, if we wish to combat effectively the dramatic danger of a threatening and virulent epidemic, both for ourselves and our families and for the citizens of Europe, it is important for the European Parliament to stick firmly to its position.
The European Commission is, in its own words, not in a position to accept a common position from the Council, on the grounds that: it does not provide a comprehensive and effective response to the emergence of a hazardous epidemic; the common position considerably reduces the scope of proposed Community action; and the formulation of measures which could or might be proposed in epidemic situations is unacceptable, because it is expressed in terms of intergovernmental cooperation, which is totally inappropriate and even contradicts Article 129 of the Treaty of Maastricht.
I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the proposed amendments, which I must point out to you have been all accepted unanimously by the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment.
Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for his detailed explanation of the situation which faces us at the second reading, which I do not intend to duplicate tonight.
Instead, with respect to the few diligent souls still left in the Public Gallery at this hour, I would like to illustrate in a way that is particularly relevant to Members why we need to make some real progress both tonight and in the coming weeks to create a meaningful European network for surveillance and control of communicable diseases.
There is something that most Members do more often than most of our fellow citizens: we fly in aeroplanes.
Yet in some of the European Union Member States, there are health rules at points of access, in others the rules are very different, despite frequent cross-border transits.
In such circumstances a close degree of cooperation and coordination makes common sense, not just for travellers and parliamentarians but for all our citizens who need protection in many more ways than the very simple small example I have just set out.
However, the common position returned to this Parliament offers a number of low common denominators.
While agreeing the surveillance network means obligations on Member States, the Council has agreed unanimously only a more general flexible framework for information exchange and coordination of efforts.
After all, the poor status quo brought about these proposals after initial reports showed the weaknesses.
It will be of great interest to see whether, assuming Parliament as a whole adopts the recommendation, as I hope it will, in the subsequent conciliation negotiations the minimal stance of the Council and the more progressive and realistic approach of the Commission - which I know places considerable importance on these proposals to the extent of unusually reserving its position - can be reconciled with the more forward-thinking proposals from this Parliament.
I am pleased that at least some of our suggestions have already been incorporated.
The Commission wants the power to be proactive, to study and act upon significant outbreaks wherever they occur and, given the draft Treaty commitments on coherent public health policies across Europe, to take proper coherent action where and when it is needed.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has adopted the 22 amendments proposed by the rapporteur almost unanimously, which gives us every hope for a strong and united commitment on the part of the Parliamentary delegation to the conciliation procedure upon which this report is inevitably embarking.
A central and permanent structure at European level for a network for the epidemiological surveillance of communicable diseases is essential in view of the outbreak of old and new epidemics, and in order to have a fast alarm system that enables Member States to take the necessary and properly coordinated measures.
Unfortunately, Article 129 of the Treaty is contradictory, even in the new Amsterdam wording: on the one hand, in the first point it declares that it wants to ensure a high level of human health protection, but then, further on, the same Article prohibits any kind of harmonization of the laws and regulations of the Member States, thus eliminating the means for any incisive intervention.
Mr President, I am delighted that the Amsterdam Treaty on the future of the European Union states that the new provisions on public health protection will be introduced with particular focus on committing the European Union to improving the level of human health.
This provision - Article 152 of the Amsterdam Treaty - is clearly a recognition that the European Union must introduce confidence-building measures in the field of public and human health, in the light of difficulties which arose as a result of the problems relating to BSE and blood-contaminated products in many European states in recent years.
Indeed, Community action which complements national policies shall be directed towards improving public health, preventing human illness and diseases and obviating sources of danger to public health.
Such action shall cover the fight against the major health scourges by improving research into the causes, their transmission and prevention, as well as health information and education.
The Community shall complement the Member States' action in reducing drug-related health damage, including information and prevention.
In particular, the European Union shall adopt measures setting out the highest standards for the quality and safety of organs and substances of human origin, blood and blood derivatives.
However, European Union measures adopted in this sphere shall not prevent any Member State from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures on this subject.
Finally, I am indeed pleased that the European Parliament has been given the power of codecision by the Amsterdam Treaty, with the European Council of Health Ministers, on all new proposals for European legislation in the area of public health and human health.
It is an excellent report, which has demonstrated profound and serious contradictions in this area, which is such an important part of the building of Europe.
Mr President, in France there is a song which says that freedom guides our steps.
And the price of freedom is risk and responsibility.
The Commission has supported Parliament's action.
We therefore have to help the Council towards the adoption of a more discriminating attitude, so that all citizens of the European Union can be assured of health.
Mr President, I think at this stage in the debate several things have become clear.
I also think this is a very important message for the European Commission.
That is one of the obligations of all governments, and appears in our constitutions.
We are all convinced of the necessity for the European Union to develop its activities in this field and, in particular, to introduce a formal mechanism to share not only information on communicable diseases, but to ensure that a coherent approach is taken with regard to control measures.
The need to have comparable and reliable data on the evolution of diseases such as CreutzfeldtJakob Disease through all of Europe is an obvious example of the importance of having a comprehensive network properly put in place.
It is not covered by the 1998 vaccine produced with the advice of the WHO.
Without a Community network, there would be no possibility of monitoring new cases at Community level and no possibility of defining and coordinating control measures for travellers coming from the Hong Kong region.
This example illustrates why we strongly believe that this network must not restrict itself just to surveillance, but also encompass control measures.
We want to create a system which makes it possible to take rapid and effective action.
We want a system which enables the Community to define protective measures which have to be taken, particularly in situations of emergency.
I can inform the House that we are willing to accept either wholly or in part 17 of the amendments; 14 can be accepted in full.
They are: Amendments Nos 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 19, 20 and 22.
Let me explain the reason why we consider the remaining five amendments unacceptable.
Amendment No 1 refers to one recital which, in our view, does not reflect properly the variation in surveillance capacity in the Member States.
Regarding Amendment No 3, the Commission, as it has stated on the very first reading, believes that rather than restricting the choice of methodologies to the established ones, the possibility must be left open for the development of new and more effective methodologies.
As to Amendment No 16, the Commission feels that it is necessary for the coordination of measures by the Member States to come under the comitology procedure mentioned in Article 6.
Concerning Amendment No 17, the Commission feels that two representatives from each Member State must sit on the committee so as to ensure coverage of both the surveillance and the control branches of the national authorities.
Let me turn to Amendment No 5, specifically mentioned by the rapporteur, on a European Centre for the surveillance of communicable diseases.
However, this aim has to be achieved in the most practical and straightforward manner and, in particular, it has to take into account the work which has already been undertaken and the structures which already exist in the Community.
There are already national centres in existence, many of them with considerable experience and expertise in this field.
In our view it is much better to build upon and strengthen what already exists and has proved to be working well, rather than to start from scratch and construct a totally new and untried organization.
Let me just repeat once again my deep appreciation to Parliament and to you, Mr Cabrol, for your efforts and for the close collaboration with the Commission on this particular issue.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, when the European Parliament hopefully approves the Conciliation Committee's report on this directive, we will ensure risk assessment at a European level of chemicals which have so far not been covered by other environmental regulations.
The Council was caught red-handed when it sent the common position to Parliament without the declarations, 14 in all, on the protocol adopted by the Council or jointly by the Council and the Commission.
Long transitional arrangements have been built into the directive, and Parliament has even had a "fast track procedure' inserted which should not compromise the necessary environmental requirements.
And once again in this Parliament, we must reject them outright, because they contravene the spirit and the letter of the Treaties, and are an obvious misrepresentation which this Parliament will never be able to accept.
Secondly, I think all the institutions have things to learn from the negotiations which arise from codecision.
Here in Parliament, perhaps we should have presented fewer amendments at the first reading, in order to focus more attention on the essential points.
The Commission, for its part, had still not realized the meaning of the codecision procedure and Parliament's new responsibilities.
Finally, I think the message to all the people of Europe is that our procedure may be complex, and we may be asking for the codecision procedure to be improved and speeded up (which the Treaty of Amsterdam has done to some extent), but despite all the difficulties, the relationship between the Commission, the Council and Parliament in the codecision procedure is working better and better all the time.
The purpose of the directive is, as we know, to harmonize the single market for products containing biocides, and to ensure a high level of protection for people and the environment.
In connection with the second reading, Parliament adopted five amendments.
But, as has also been emphasized here this evening, the subsequent conciliation procedure has borne fruit, and the Conciliation Committee has reached agreement on a compromise solution which is now before Parliament.
The Council has already given that solution its approval, and I think and hope that Parliament will do the same.
Parliament wanted to make sure that the modus vivendi was followed in connection with the comitology procedure for the inclusion of active substances in these annexes.
The Commission is entirely in agreement with Parliament that the decisionmaking process should be absolutely transparent, and it will do its utmost to put this into practice.
The Commission has promised to present a proposal for the revision of the comitology settlement at the beginning of June 1998.
Thank you, Commissioner Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
This unevenness occurs in the basic infrastructure of the information and communications technologies, and in the cost and reliability of advanced services.
Availability and ease of access are prerequisites for being able to enjoy the benefits provided by the development of the information society.
As regards advanced services, progress has been made with cellular telephones (including GSM) but there is still great variation in the availability of rented lines or advanced exchange lines, and with the on-line digital network service.
In 1995 there were 15.2 PCs for every 100 inhabitants in the most developed regions of Europe, compared with 3.1 in Greece, 8.6 in Spain, 6 in Portugal and 8.9 in Italy.
The possibility that investments may be delayed in certain regions means there may be a polarization between those who have information and those who do not.
To avoid such polarization, we need political action to tackle the profound structural changes imposed by the information society, in working practices, methods of business organization and public administration.
That policy is partly lacking, as shown by the fact that only 2 % of the structural funds are spent on investment in the telecommunications sector.
The cost of the information society should be part of the "mainstreaming' of the structural funds.
In fact, the structural funds have played a central role in laying the foundations of the information society, despite the lack of investment.
We are talking about an instrument - the information and communications technologies - which is fundamental to the future development of competitiveness, and to an increased quality of life for our citizens.
It is hard to see how any small business in a less favoured region can survive the challenge without introducing electronic commerce, for example.
It is difficult to imagine that a small or medium-sized enterprise could engage in research and innovation without having a fully operational system of information and communications technologies.
The Commissioner knows that very well, which is why I am not presenting this as a complaint, but just asking for her help and collaboration.
First, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the broad thrust of her report on cohesion and the information society.
There can be little doubt of the importance of information and communication technology - the information society - to our economy and to our lifestyle.
In particular it opens up all manner of possibilities for remote rural areas, for ultra-peripheral islands and poorer less favoured regions with a low density of population and limited transport infrastructure.
In my constituency of Devon and East Plymouth which contains cities and isolated farming communities there are numerous ICT projects in hand: for distance learning, for academic exchanges of information with the universities in other Member States, for training, for business such as a satellite link ISDN video for cattle auction by remote bidding or for telesales operations.
By all means ask for a greater proportion of structural funds to be spent on this instead of something else, but let us be realistic about not asking for more money when it is not there.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I think we should congratulate ourselves on the fact that the Committee on Regional Policy is talking about the information society and the effect it will have on European cohesion.
Superhighways, or motorways, often charge tolls - not in Germany, Madam Commissioner, but in other countries.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, no-one doubts that the new information and communication technologies can have positive effects on education and training, on changing times and the organization of work, on business modernization at the most varied levels, and consequently on people's increased opportunities for free time and leisure.
The recommendations set out in the report drawn up by Mrs Sierra González - whom I congratulate warmly although there are no more than half a dozen of us here - the recommendations set out in the report, as I was saying, for the structural funds to play a far more substantial part in the materialization and construction of infrastructures, in education, training and research-related aspects, naturally deserve our full support.
Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report and the Commissioner for her interest and, indeed, involvement in this important issue.
In particular, I refer to paragraph 20 which recommends that the total or partial substitution of 'physical' investments by the supply of adequate telecommunications services in such a way as to minimize the cost of investment and the constraints on the environment be systematically included as part of the evaluation process of investments financed by the structural funds and be a substantial part of the national programmes as presented in the framework of these funds.
It would be an extremely important achievement throughout the Union if our young citizens got free access to these services at a training level.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I come from a country which is not particularly rich, and which is on the edge of Europe.
The information society will not suddenly appear in the remote and island regions tomorrow morning just because we are debating it here.
I think Agenda 2000 is an opportunity for us to take a serious look at the issue, since I think that essentially the second Delors Package has finished - it finishes in 1999 - in view of the Salter Package.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, information technology and telecommunications have opened up tremendous opportunities to cover distance and overcome obstacles, nurturing decentralization and regional equality.
The Commission also believes that the information society is of strategic importance for economic and social cohesion and for employment.
In this respect, technological development is only one side of the problem.
The draft of the first report on universal employment is currently being prepared and the Commission has, as you know, already laid down guidelines for the financing of universal employment in a competition-oriented environment.
Finally, in its half-time review of Objective 1 regions, and within the framework of the second programme-planning period for Objective 2, the Commission has called upon Member States to use the strategic potential of the information society for regional development purposes.
If we want them to promote more information projects, then we must begin by helping them to amend their priorities and overcome the fear of the information society which still prevails.
Thank you, Commissioner Wulf-Mathies.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.00 pm.)
