Mr President, I wish to bring to the attention of this House a totally unacceptable and disgraceful attack on the government of Italy yesterday by the Prime Minister of Turkey speaking before the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
Encouraging demonstrations and trade embargos against one of our Member States is, frankly, unacceptable from a country which wishes and aspires to join us in the European Union.
An attack on the government of Italy in this way is an attack on all of us in the European Union: on the values which underlie this Union, on the solidarity and partnership which is fundamental to European integration.
Perhaps we could ask the Turkish Grand National Assembly to join with us in seeing this moment not as a threat but as an opportunity to launch the political dialogue, which is the only way to solve the Kurdish problem.
I believe that the vast majority in this Parliament have always opposed terrorism, in all its forms, and that we can have every confidence in Italy, a Member State of the European Union, which has shown a fundamental respect for the rule of law and the fundamental rules of the constitutional state.
I should indeed like to support the request to protest to the Turkish authorities and to declare our support for the position of the Italian Government.
Mr President, at the beginning of the week, I expressed my group's concern regarding the Turkish Government's request for extradition.
I had already made it clear, as other chairmen had made it clear, that we wanted Mr Ocalan to be granted political asylum.
We are now faced with a new situation that affects Parliament.
This letter ends by saying that granting Mr Ocalan political asylum would not only have a negative effect on the friendly relations between Turkey and Italy, but would also create a terrorist problem for Italy, Europe and the rest of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens in the European Parliament agree with what has been said here today.
Secondly, a very clear majority in Parliament has taken the line throughout this debate that a political solution must be found to the Kurdish problem.
We therefore believe that no pressure must be placed on Italy, that the whole of Europe must declare its support for Italy on this and above all that further efforts must be made in working towards a political solution.
I would like to add that solidarity is extremely important in situations like this where one Member State is attacked by the Turkish Government, because that is the way, and the only way, we can build our common European home and the common foreign and security policy.
Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the European Parliament possesses sufficient moral authority, as a constant defender of the rule of law and as a Chamber that has always condemned terrorism, to show support and solidarity with a Member State that strictly adheres to these rules, and that respects the independence of the judiciary and the implementation of its own laws.
Mr President, Article F of the Treaty of European Union requires the Member States of the European Union to be democracies, a provision which has, if anything, been strengthened by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In the circumstances I am sure that the majority of this House would agree that the vote last night, in an unelected chamber ...
VOTES Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you are in good form, because there are 760 amendments, and Mr Cot and I will try to ensure that the morning passes as smoothly as possible.
The Committee on Regional Policy has advocated this.
If we reject No 21, then we should make a general statement to the effect that we do not want these countries represented on the committees.
I wanted to put to the vote first Amendment No 9 by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
If it had been adopted, we should have voted on Amendment No 19 by the Green Group as an addition.
After that, I will of course put to the vote Amendment No 21 by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
No, that is not accurate, Madam President, because I had submitted this question in a letter to the so-called 'Steering Committee', which has not replied, and I was hoping that the Presidency would resolve the matter.
So, in the absence of a response from the Presidency, we believe that our criterion should be used.
After the vote on Amendment No 9 Madam President, you said before the vote that you would also be putting Amendment No 21 to the vote.
If Amendment No 9 had been rejected, Mr Walter, that is what I said.
But it was adopted - the result was quite clear.
Madam President, formally speaking, your conclusion might well be correct, but from a practical point of view, Amendment No 21 constitutes an addition, and I also think that it should be put to the vote, particularly as you said so yourself.
Mrs Schroedter, I did not say that I would put Amendment No 21 to the vote in any event.
I said that I would put Amendment No 21 to the vote if Amendment No 9 was rejected.
We would vote on this next as an opening recital: 'whereas all the other countries included in the accession process should also benefit from analogous programmes within the legal and contractual framework of their relations with the European Union'.
That is why there should be a split vote here, on the addition of Cyprus at this point.
After the vote on Amendment No 21 Madam President, I would draw your attention to the fact that the Presidency has been somewhat inconsistent because by voting for Amendment No 16, Parliament has just contradicted what my report says, despite the fact that I had previously warned of this.
Parliament has given its opinion as regards the committee's composition in terms of my report and has now just adopted a resolution that contradicts this.
Yes, Mr Barón Crespo, but it was up to the House to take account of that.
Before the final vote (Parliament approved a request from the rapporteur for the matter to be referred back to committee) Madam President, I would like to remind you once again that we are about to encounter a problem that I outlined in writing to the 'Steering Committee' and to the Presidency and that I repeated today.
I see that Mr van den Broek agrees. (Parliament decided to refer the matter back to committee) Mr President, if we are going to try and get this vote through quickly, I suggest that the PPE, if they are going to continue to vote against their own amendments, actually have the courage to withdraw them before we go right the way through this session.
Mr President, in relation to the vote on the McCarthy report, I wish to say that my explanation concerns the Irish situation.
We still have enormous problems of social exclusion, especially in deprived urban and rural communities, and, indeed, underdevelopment.
I voted in favour of this report in the final vote because I feel that, in the end, it does not compromise Portugal's specific interests in the negotiations on Agenda 2000, despite relevant factors with regard to economic and social cohesion.
I would like to begin my comments by saying that I welcome the decision of the Irish Government this week to sub-divide the country for the purposes of drawing down EU Structural Funds during the year 2000-2006.
I would like to commend the efforts of all the people involved in the process of lobbying for Objective 1 status for the poorest regions in Ireland for the next round of EU Structural Funds for the period 2000-2006.
I would like to thank the Members of the House for supporting my report today.
I know that voters in my constituency in the East Midlands will be pleased to know that Parliament is supporting continued European funds to the rural, urban and industrial heartlands of our region where lower levels of unemployment mask underlying structural and social weaknesses.
Indeed in accepting an additional two years of funding beyond the Commission proposal for areas going through restructuring, this will sustain the process, particularly in the coalfields and rural areas.
Although negotiations still have to be held and decisions taken next year the figures will form the basis of those negotiations.
Merseyside, in the north west region, with a GDP of 72.54 % which falls within the 75 % threshold, has ongoing structural problems which mean the area will continue to need priority EU status.
Manchester, Liverpool and Nottingham which have benefited from the Urban fund will be delighted to hear that Parliament has backed its continuation.
The continuation of European funding after the present programme concludes next year is vital if we are to consolidate the strong economic growth rates of recent years.
Thirty-five per cent of all structural fund programmes in Ireland is presently spent in the areas of education and training under the European Social Fund.
In the light of the European Union's enlargement process, the Commission's proposal for reform of the Structural Funds acquires a particular importance for the future of European citizens.
The report before us today is the product of many hours of discussion and compromise solutions reached by our two rapporteurs, and I thank them for their work.
We would like the criterion of 75 % to be stringently respected, and no exception should be made to this principle.
This is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the French Socialist delegation to the European Parliament will not vote in favour at first reading.
The Agenda 2000 action programme cannot be dissociated from the Commission report on the system of own resources.
It even seems more logical to first consider the reform of own resources, because that will condition the three programme areas: the budget, the agricultural policy and the Structural Funds.
Their activities are focused on restricted geographical areas whose economic and social development is clearly below the average of the other areas of Europe, either because they are disadvantaged, or because they need to be converted.
These regions are either subject to a development lag or industrial decline, or they are made up of rural or urban areas that are experiencing serious problems.
Massive financial investment with a clear focus will seek to help these regions counteract the negative effects of an open market that is increasingly deregulated.
The regions involved should be small enough to ensure that the impact is visible.
The development of human resources should play a central role in the European and national employment strategies.
Although the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs McCarthy and Mr Hatzidakis on the Structural Funds speaks of the 'horizontal nature' of this Objective 3, and considers that it should cover all areas of the Member States, there is reason to fear that lack of funds will cause the Objective to be confined, as suggested by the Commission, to only those areas that are not covered by Objectives 1 and 2.
We know that the disparities between Member States have increased in terms of both training and unemployment levels: one young European in five is unemployed and increasing numbers of families live below the poverty line.
It is only when Europe has proved that it is able to resolve the major problems faced by our society, namely unemployment, poverty and exclusion, that public opinion will support, with total confidence, the strengthening and enlargement of the Union.
People in the EU's less developed areas regard the review of the regulations governing the Structural Funds and in particular their funding from the Community budget with particular disquiet.
While the sums provided are inadequate, and while the funding of the Community budget has still not been settled, to the Objective 1 countries are being added the most remote areas of the Community (from which, quite unreasonably, the Aegean islands are excluded) as well as the areas covered by the old Objective 6.
At the same time, there is a looming risk that some areas in countries covered by the Cohesion Fund, where per capita income is lower than 75 % of the Community average, may be excluded from Objective 1.
From that standpoint, then, the proposal to increase Community participation from 75 % to 85 % is well founded.
To impose still greater control and obedience to the Community's choices, the Commission proposes to create a reserve amounting to 10 % of the appropriations and maintains that appropriations not used after 2 years should automatically be cancelled.
Quite rightly, the Committee on Regional Policy rejects the proposal to create a reserve and also insists that appropriations unused after 2 years should remain available for the same country to which they were originally allocated.
We have decided to abstain in the final vote.
The European structural policy may have proved itself, but it is in need of reform.
The purpose of the European structural policy is to make it possible to close the gap between the Union's poorer and wealthier regions.
I very much hope that Parliament will declare itself in favour of increasing these appropriations.
The European structural policy has brought us considerably closer to realising our aim of reducing the disparities between the levels of development and per capita incomes in the Member States and their regions.
In addition, the criteria for Objective 5 should also be included, unaltered, within the framework of Objective 2.
In addition, structural support should be allocated in a flexible, horizontal and decentralised way in which there is plenty of scope for partnership as well as national, regional and local initiatives.
Under Objective 1, the 75 % criterion should be strictly applied, and the previous Objective 6 criteria included under the new Objective 1.
In our opinion, Objective 3 should be broadly based and allow for support for normal education.
On paragraph 31 and additionality, we think that the proposal to also take account of macroeconomic conditions is formulated in a way that makes it difficult to assess the work involved in carrying out the proposal.
Amendment No 94 on evaluation is well-intentioned, but it should be noted that the proposed method of evaluation could lead to increased bureaucracy.
Finally, we especially approve of the proposal contained in the report regarding a strong role for the European Parliament.
As a result of our economic progress, Ireland has now reached average EU wealth levels.
But we still lag a considerable way behind our European partners in terms of our infrastructure, particularly as regards transport and telecommunications, and environmental protection facilities.
The report forms part of the collective strategy for reforming the Union's structural support system.
Likewise, we might wonder about the implications of Agenda 2000 for the rural regions, which are among the most fragile regions in the European Union.
In this respect, 9 % of the population of the Member States of the Union benefited from Objectives 5a and 5b; in the future, no more than around 5 % of the population will be eligible for such aid.
In France, 9.7 million people lived in areas covered by Structural Fund activities; in the future, that figure will be reduced to 7.1 million.
Some 3 million French citizens who live and work for the most part in rural regions will suffer as a result of the new reform: 20 % of French territory will no longer be eligible for aid from the Structural Funds.
We should remember in this connection that, following the GATT negotiations and the reform of the CAP, which had been highly detrimental, rural regions had obtained more ambitious structural aid measures by way of compensation.
What is more, the Structural Funds seem, in fact, to be a tool of federalist redistribution, whose objective is to make the recipient regions more and more dependent on the Commission, rather than allowing them to overcome their difficulties.
Indeed, it must be acknowledged that Community action has sometimes had highly damaging effects on economic and social cohesion, a matter people are all too ready to revel in, but one that should be resolved.
Unfortunately, in the final vote I had to vote against, because 1.my Amendment No 47 on improving national support was rejected, and2.many additions were made to the proposals, which will ultimately overstretch the funding.
I am voting for this interim report as in my view it represents a sound response from this Parliament to the immensely complex and potentially controversial changes needed to the Regional and Structural Funds suggested in the Commission's Agenda 2000 plans.
To create economic and social cohesion, the reform of the Structural Funds must take account of the real economic situation in the recipient regions.
The Alleanza Nazionale - and I personally - therefore believe that the following guidelines should be followed: geographic concentration of intervention geared to simplification of Structural Funds access and management procedures; -programming of intervention in a broader partnership including, in addition to the Member States, regional and local authorities, economic and social partners and other relevant organisations, especially as regards environmental issues and promotion of equal opportunities; -flexible application of the 75 % per capita criterion in the Objective 1 definition through the inclusion of the insularity principle to guarantee intervention in islands structurally disadvantaged by their geography; -flexible application of the population cap under Objective 2, with the introduction of additional indicators, such as geographical handicaps and/or environmental circumstances, in order to protect Member States heavily penalised by rigid application of the 'safety net', like Italy.-general agreement on reducing the number of Community initiatives to three, keeping the URBAN initiative, the only instrument capable of ensuring uniform urban policy in all the local authorities concerned; -disagreement with the creation of a performance reserve either along the lines of the Commission's model or in the form of reallocation to the ERDF or the other Structural Funds within the same Member State; -phasing out over seven years for the regions leaving Objectives 2 and 5b ensuring progressive elimination of the provisional aid, including the new leaver, Abruzzo.- G.
Collins report (A4-0395/98) We have voted against the report on the Cohesion Fund.
It does not come under the EU's regional and structural funding, but is direct aid to those countries.
Countries that have complied with the convergence criteria have undoubtedly performed well according to the macroeconomic indicators, but at the same time, this does not necessarily mean that complete social and economic cohesion has been achieved in and between those countries.
I voted for this report because the specific vote rejecting the proposal to limit the Cohesion Fund to countries outside EMU, to discriminate against Portugal, was so overwhelming, with more than 300 votes against, that the minimum conditions have been created to prevent Portugal's exclusion from the Cohesion Fund and its benefits.
The European Parliament is explicitly confirming the Commission's position to guarantee a more favourable position for Portugal's interests.
The proposal for the Cohesion Fund included in Agenda 2000 - a document presented by the Commission in the middle of 1997 - states that the beneficiaries of this Fund should be countries that continue to have a GNP less than 90 % of the Community average, regardless of whether or not they participate in Economic Monetary Union.
The Council's legal services later issued an opinion confirming, in the light of the Treaty on European Union, the eligibility for the Cohesion Fund not only of Greece - which is outside the single currency - but also of Spain, Ireland and Portugal - whose governments decided to join the euro.
For us, there was never any doubt as to this question and we think that no Community institution has the legitimacy on this score to undermine the Treaty and the principle of economic and social cohesion on which the very creation of the Fund was based, and prevent Portugal from having access to the Cohesion Fund.
The Collins report corroborates this view and we can, of course, vote in favour of it.
In addition, and in keeping with what we have always contended, the report also questions the condition of meeting the convergence criteria to receive Fund money and also opposes the Commission's proposal that benefiting from the Fund means meeting the conditions of the Stability Pact.
Obviously, we should emphasise the fact that maintenance of the Cohesion Fund for Portugal should not be seen as something of enormous importance but instead as a simple confirmation that this was conceded a long time ago in the negotiation process on the next Community support framework.
We have therefore rejected the idea that maintenance of the Fund could be used as a smokescreen to conceal the real losses that Portugal might suffer in terms of the Structural Funds.
Varela Suanzes-Carpegna report (A4-0393/98) The European Commission's proposal did not aim to make any great operational changes to the EAGGF.
In fact, the additions contributed by the European Parliament reflect the evolution of the European Union's socio-economic development, of new technologies and of local services.
Finally, it is essential that Parliament plays an active role in following up and monitoring the implementation of structural policies.
We have decided to abstain in the final vote.
However, we firmly believe that the European Regional Development Fund should be phased out and the money returned to the Member States.
Kellett-Bowman report (A4-0380/98) We are unable to support the overall text of the proposal for a Council regulation laying down general rules for the granting of Community financial aid in the field of trans-European networks.
At the same time, national investment within the Union has fallen from 1.5 % of GNP in the 1970s to 0.9 % in the 1990s.
Jöns report (A4-0398/98) The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of a reform of the Social Fund.
I have abstained from voting on the report on the European Social Fund, because the overall aim of the Fund is to help bring about social convergence in the Union.
The ESF is therefore an instrument for creating what is in fact a European social policy and for promoting economic and social solidarity.
A series of judgements and assessments are presented in the report regarding Social Fund measures designed to promote equal opportunities for people to be integrated into the labour market, strengthen systems of education and increase the participation of women in the labour market.
These initiatives all have some positive features, but the problem is that these efforts are linked to the establishment of a European social policy and the promotion of the social dialogue, which are ultimately meant to contribute to the establishment of a common European labour market policy.
It is also important to promote equal opportunities for people, so that they can be integrated into the labour market, but this should take place without any political undertones, and not as part of a strategy designed to bring about social convergence in the EU.
We welcome the current revision of the European Social Fund, not least in respect of the new chapter on employment in the Amsterdam Treaty.
The European Social Fund plays a very important role in employment strategies, since it supports and complements the strategies carried out at national level.
We therefore support the proposal, which aims to prioritise local projects in Social Fund programme planning activities.
Resolution on the CAP My vote on this issue took into account the position on the proposal to cofinance income support out of national budgets, as suggested, in particular, in point 8 of the joint motion for resolution by the PSE and Green Groups.
Fundamentally, this option would unacceptably make negotiations rely on the issue of own resources and confine Portugal's negotiating position both on Agenda 2000 and on the financial perspective.
Most parties are in favour of a further integration of environmental policy objectives into the CAP.
The Rural Environment Protection scheme is also designed to assist in the production of quality food in the extensive and environmentally friendly manner.
However, incentives and support arrangements must be in place through the European Union so that any changes in this sphere are brought about in a cost effective manner.
Discussion should take place on these issues with farming organisations and with the Irish Government and the European Commission so that any changes which are brought about command the goodwill and the support of Irish farmers and national and European authorities.
I voted against the Fantuzzi resolution on Agenda 2000 and the reform of the CAP because in paragraph 8, the rapporteur actually claims that cofinancing is not meant to solve the problems and meet the needs of agriculture but to deal with the issue of the Member States' budget contributions.
The new proposals put forward on European farming by the Commission in Agenda 2000 are perhaps the most representative indication of the EU's overall intentions as regards its model of development.
The questionable argument in favour of continual cuts in the section of the Community budget devoted to agriculture, which the Agenda 2000 proposals and those for the review of the CAP put forward, is actually - and now quite openly - calling into question and undermining the decisive developmental role which agriculture has played up to now in most parts of Europe.
We have in our hands proposals which are contradictory, dangerous, without any balance between the human factor, production and land, proposals which aim to reduce the agricultural population still further, cut prices and production costs for the sake of competition, and in general replace intervention by help to accumulate private stores.
Those proposals will not only cause imbalances in production but will also constitute a direct threat to product quality, environmental equilibrium, farm employment and social balance and cohesion.
Furthermore, this proposal heralds flagrant and impermissible intervention in the budgets of Member States by introducing conditions of subservience with the compulsory co-financing of direct aid by the Member States.
While the French Socialist delegation supports the majority of the text of the joint motion for a resolution by the PSE and Green Groups, it wishes to express its disagreement with paragraph 8 on the cofinancing of agricultural aid by the Member States.
The reasons for this have been explained in various speeches by members of the group in debates on agricultural policy.
As was to be expected, the ELDR Group voted in favour of all the articles of its joint resolution with the PPE.
When the final vote came it had to decide if it would vote in favour of the resolution despite the fact that paragraph 14 with its clause on cofinancing was defeated.
Our group has opposed any form of cofinancing of the CAP by the Member States.
First, this Commission proposal diverges from the fundamental principle of financial solidarity that is embodied in Article 2 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and that applies to all common policies.
Today, only two common policies exist: the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy.
In the debate on the Commission's Agenda 2000 proposal, we had stated that if the aim was to maintain, in the context of the reform of the CAP and of the principal COMs, the founding principles of the Community preference and to maintain farmers' earnings by compensating fully for price reductions, both the budget and the level of the agricultural guideline envisaged would be insufficient.
Rather than seeing such an extremely unhealthy separation between the decision-makers and those who are paying, our group would prefer us to move towards a total renationalisation of the CAP that would enable the Member States to draw up their own agricultural policy to the benefit of their farmers, rural land-use planning and consumer protection.
I am happy to note that, with this morning's vote in the House, the European Parliament has clearly rejected those elements of the resolution that provided for the introduction of cofinancing.
Görlach report (A4-0405/98) Five million farming jobs have been lost in the EU between 1980 and today.
The rapporteur forgets, and is also trying to persuade farmers to forget, that the countryside, the farming areas in which 25 % of the EU's population live, are closely interwoven with farming and livestock breeding, and that farmers are indissolubly bound to the land and to their work.
What European farmers expect and demand is that we should do all we can to defend their right to continue their activities without interruption and under the best possible conditions, and their right to make a decent living from those activities.
The Commission has not gone far enough in its proposed agricultural reform within the framework of Agenda 2000.
However, the overall resources remain insufficient and the basic guidelines have not been changed.
I welcome the fact that the European Commission is proposing to include agricultural structural measures in a framework regulation.
Rural policy must remain primarily the responsibility of national and regional government.
These changes, and I say this in the framework of the third pillar, are a feather in the cap for the European Parliament.
Now the day-to-day reality.
The Council of Ministers has found itself in an impasse over recent years.
This is why the Liberal Group also believes it is a good thing that the Austrian Presidency has now taken the initiative to move towards a more systematic approach to asylum and immigration policy, in particular in the light of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The proposals for joint action for the protection of displaced persons look reasonable now that a number of Parliament's amendments have been adopted.
If we once again fail to achieve a speedy decision because a couple of Member States refuse to cooperate then an alternative solution must be sought and those Member States who are indeed prepared to assume their responsibilities must work together in a coalition of the willing.
Mr President, in some national parliaments the asylum and refugee debate is plagued by a populist game appealing to xenophobic sentiments in the hope of scoring electoral points.
The improvements he brings to the two Commission proposals make these even clearer and more humane.
The rapporteur rightly favours a strengthening of Parliament's role.
In addition, he seeks a stronger legal basis for refugee policy and, like most of us, he is trying to avoid dependence on a unanimous vote in the Council.
I should, however, like to express my own frustration and that of my group at the report being constantly rescheduled this week.
This debate is taking place when many colleagues are prevented from being here by other appointments.
This is true of the chairman of our committee, who is usually always present when debates involving our committee are being held in the plenary, and takes part in the debate.
The tragedy of the refugees from Kosovo has once again revealed the inability of our governments to respond to events of this kind in a way which is commensurate with their own professed standards of morality and human rights.
Now refugees from Kosovo are being detained at the Union's external borders as illegal immigrants, and are also very often treated as criminals.
We want to be able to continue to offer sanctuary in the European Union to those fleeing from armed conflict, sustained violence, or systematic or widespread violations of human rights.
We believe it is right for all present and future Member States to contribute to fulfilling this humanitarian commitment.
I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of certain parts of the text originally proposed by the Commission, because we believe that some of the points it contains are better than some of the amendments.
It makes absolutely no sense, in the event of a mass influx, actually to have a joint action offering refugees protection in the Union, and yet alongside this not to make any arrangements for how these people are actually going to reach the Union.
On burden-sharing, the Commission's proposal gives priority to balancing out the financial burden over balancing out the distribution of people.
I doubt whether this would have been possible in the same way if we had, from the outset, forcefully transported these people to an area where they did not have contacts of this kind, for example.
Finally, I should like to say that I hope that the Council will soon be adopting practical proposals on how this is to be done.
Mr President, having heard Mrs Zimmermann's speech, I cannot help wondering whether she was giving the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as announced, or whether she was speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group.
Yet all our Member States are confronted with the most harrowing circumstances of these refugees.
Fleeing Kosovars are being plucked from lorries by the dozen and in some cases the Member States assume their responsibilities and initiate asylum procedures.
In many other cases, people are simply expelled or abandoned to their fate.
The only response which the Schengen countries could come up with when boatloads of Kurdish refugees arrived on the Italian coast, for example, was to call Italy to order and promptly close the borders.
The problem lies principally with the European Council which in March 1996 itself gave a restrictive definition.
This is why the European Parliament is sticking to the right of refugees to submit an individual request for asylum despite the temporary protection.
Not only financial solidarity, but above all solidarity in practice by actually agreeing to take the refugees.
The Commission has nevertheless deemed it useful to separate the two proposals in order to give the proposal a chance of success.
My group would like to add two further conditions.
Secondly, refugees must be able to return without problems to the place they came from and not just dropped off somewhere in the region.
The problem is burden-sharing.
The problem has been an urgent one ever since the civil war in Yugoslavia put hundreds of thousands of people to flight.
Since then there have been calls for burden-sharing.
The Commission has redrafted its paper and has now come up with a very peculiar idea.
It has now proposed two legislative acts, the first on admitting refugees and the second on solidarity in the admission of refugees.
We would also ask you to consider, Mrs Gradin, whether five years is the right duration for the temporary admission regime.
It would be better to give someone outside the Union the opportunity to come in, rather than giving someone who has already come in the possibility of bringing his whole family to join him straight away.
The question for us was a political one: is the progress being made here such that, despite all the criticism, we can approve it; or is it so little that, if we agreed to it, we would meet with the reproach in the future that it has already been settled?
We say that the progress being made here is so minimal that we cannot pronounce ourselves satisfied with it.
I use the conditional tense for the simple reason that we cannot be careful enough in what we say since, having been asked to reach a decision in December on the matter currently under discussion, the Council is far from unanimous with regard to the proposals that have just been put forward by Mr Wiebenga.
The Commission's proposals for joint action on the temporary protection of displaced persons and solidarity in the reception and stay of those benefiting from such protection make up a whole.
The rapporteur has clearly highlighted the manner in which the first section of his report complements the Geneva Convention on refugees.
Moreover, experience shows that an unequal distribution of burdens gives rise to many problems linked to the implementation of the right of asylum or the treatment of persons who, for one reason or another, see no other solution to their sad fate than to cross the borders of the European Union.
We might remember the panic, which I would call ridiculous if the situation had not been so serious, that was caused by the arrival of a few Kurds in Italy last year, as though the presence of a few thousand Kurds in the territory of the European Union was likely to destabilise 350 million Europeans.
The example of the arrival of a few thousand Kurds in Bari effectively highlighted the weaknesses and gaps involving this issue and in terms of the application of existing rules.
If we are talking about a stable integration, a stable laying down of roots in a society, then people should not live for five years with the idea that the next day or perhaps at the end of this period they will have another status which may be much better, let alone that at the end of this five years they may find themselves facing another five years in this intolerable state of uncertainty.
Various comments are made, but for example the second proposal on financial solidarity in Article 2(2) says: can ask the UNHCR for advice.
We believe this should be 'must' and in a number of explanations it has given it also seems as if that is what the Commission wants.
Finally, the rapporteur would like to see the word 'solidarity' deleted from the report.
I cannot help saying that it seems easier to pursue a liberal asylum policy in Europe than in the Netherlands.
Mr President, it goes without saying that the Group of the European Radical Alliance will fully support the text presented by Mr Wiebenga, and we would like to congratulate him very sincerely on his tenacity in this matter.
The real problem lies in Europe's absence.
Meanwhile, we will grant temporary shelter, we will provide protection for refugees, we will ease our consciences before sending them back home as soon as the situation in their country has changed, when it has become less heated or when our guilty consciences have become less acute.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Wiebenga for his work.
Mr President, with a total of 90 seconds' speaking time I will confine myself to two interesting quotations.
The first comes from the Dutch liberals, from Frits Bolkestein, and dates from before the last European elections.
As soon as a country becomes safe again, all refugees from that country should return.' Surprisingly enough I do not find this spirit present either in the report or in the words of our liberal colleague Mr Wiebenga, who was nevertheless elected on this programme.
The second quotation comes from the Flemish socialist Louis Tobback who in an election leaflet describes the majority of refugees in general as: 'Gulls who come to settle here on a rubbish tip, as that is easier than fishing or farming the land back home.' These are not my words.
But the elected representatives for this party also sing another tune here in Parliament than their party leadership back home sing for their own voters.
Quite clearly we had to do more to help with the kind of crisis situation we have had with Kosovo and Bosnia in recent years - the temporary influx of large numbers of people.
This is a very important measure and I hope it is successful.
We know that there are some who are not genuine but let us make sure that in trying to exclude those we do not fail in our duty to help those who are in genuine need because of the persecution they are suffering.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the last few months of this year, we have seen similarly steep and dramatic increases in the number of asylum seekers as we saw in 1991 and 1992.
The decision to admit refugees is to be taken by a majority vote, which means that it can also be passed against the wishes of the countries concerned.
We all know what that would mean.
We know from practical experience, however, how difficult it is, when people have already spent three years in a country, to make it possible for them to return home and to help them to reintegrate.
In my opinion, therefore, to make it possible for them to reintegrate, a temporary right of asylum should initially be granted for a maximum of three years and should only be extended in special cases.
Mr President, Commissioner, what I have just heard makes me very unhappy.
Mr President, I should also like to congratulate Mr Wiebenga.
We in the Green Group would naturally like to see our amendment approved, and we believe that Commissioner Gradin's proposal on joint action to provide temporary protection is worth considering.
It is important for refugees to continue to have protection under the terms of the Convention - any other arrangement would be wholly unacceptable.
If at present we have no European solution then this means that there is no solution anywhere.
Mr President, the situation of the refugees from Kosovo does urgently require a solution, and this above all means having a fair system for distributing the people.
We believe - for the reasons already mentioned by Mr Nassauer - that dividing the proposal into two parts, and thus deferring the issue of burden-sharing, is unjustifiable.
The debate on your report will continue when voting has been completed.
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
But this does not alter the fact that the Russian Government must clearly understand that this positive signal from our side must meet with a positive signal from their side.
Ladies and gentlemen, the time available for topical and urgent debate is very short, as you know.
Mr President, the problem we are discussing today, food aid to Russia, is of the utmost importance.
It is important because, in recent weeks and months, Russia has not only been experiencing an economic and financial crisis, but is also having to live with the effects of crop failure.
Most Russians can hardly afford to buy themselves food.
We want to support the poor in Russia and not the mafia.
A further issue is financing the food aid.
Food aid will not solve the structural problems in Russia.
My motto is: Help the Russians through the winter.
The recent visit by German Chancellor Schröder to President Yeltsin shows that German flexibility in granting loans is over. 720 banks are on the verge of closure and the rest are unable to honour their undertakings.
As a result of 17 August all sorts of financial consequences are really impinging very greatly on people.
Until 17 August we had also seen huge fraud and a huge incidence of crime.
This is causing huge hardship to great sectors of the population and the lack of purchasing power therefore has a consequence on the food supply.
The government can no longer afford to import food from outside their own country.
They have been depending on 40 % of their food supply coming from outside and that is the void that we are going to have to try and fill.
There is even a TV programme called VID, which specialises in helping people.
It was not until 12 November that the Commission received a formal request from the Russian Government for a special food programme, although it had long been clear that such a request could be granted.
We are at present thinking in terms of a programme of between ECU 400 and 500 million for the supply of various products worth around ECU 400 to 500 million.
This week the ECHO mission travelled to Russia and ECU 7 million will soon be made available to fund a number of projects already prepared by non-governmental organisations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Finally, the UN resolution calls on the nuclear nations to consider additional measures, such as the promise not to be the first to use nuclear weapons.
Through their resolution in the UN Ireland and Sweden have taken the initiative in accordance with the Canberra Commission proposal for a nuclear weapon-free world.
As Mr Bertens said, Parliament supports the initiatives taken by the eight countries in the New Agenda Coalition.
The European Parliament has always made clear that it wants the European Union to be serious about the issue of nuclear disarmament and this particular initiative is one further step on the path to global nuclear disarmament.
Mr President, nuclear weapons are weapons of mass destruction which put the whole of humanity at risk.
In an earlier resolution, Parliament has already clearly confirmed the judgment of the International Court of Justice which stated this, and that is why we should also remain consistent in our decisions here.
All of us know the threat that nuclear weapons represent.
It is absurd to want to continue to retain nuclear weapons or even the first-strike option.
Out of 16 NATO countries, 12 voted in favour or abstained.
That also sends out an important signal to the European Union's Member States to rethink their defence strategies.
This country has the potential to play an important role in establishing a new security strategy in Europe.
The new federal government wants to keep to its objective of the complete abolition of weapons of mass destruction, and will participate in initiatives to this end in cooperation with its partners and allies.
Mr President, I welcome the initiative taken by the New Agenda Coalition.
I would especially like to pay tribute to the current Irish Government for the pivotal and skilful role it has played in bringing this initiative to fruition.
I hope those Member States that abstained and displayed such openness will be persuaded to vote for the resolution when it comes before the General Assembly for a final vote next month.
It is also significant that the resolution before the United Nations in no way contradicts either existing EU or NATO policies.
I welcome the broad support for this urgency but, on behalf of my group, I would like to indicate that we strongly oppose the two amendments tabled by the Green Group.
I hope that at the end of this discussion we will have a resolution that will be overwhelmingly supported by this Parliament and, in its own way, will create an impetus for support for the overall resolution in the UN General Assembly.
It is therefore absolutely vital that we continue to call for nuclear disarmament.
I therefore believe that with this resolution, Parliament will support their efforts, in line with public opinion throughout Europe.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Freedom of expression in Algeria and Serbia Mr President, the joint resolution on the freedom of expression in Algeria is intended to demonstrate our solidarity with the Algerian press.
The country's press, which plays a decisive role in combating the terrorist fundamentalism that rages in that country, has often paid a heavy price and too many journalists have died in the defence of freedom.
I therefore feel a deep sense of solidarity with the journalists in Serbia and, in particular, Algeria.
At this stage, I would ask Mr van den Broek how he sees the future of the Mediterranean Agreement with Algeria and what other measures Algeria will be required to take.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have been to Algeria twice this year, and the Algerians were always very proud to point out that the press was free in their country, that there was even a very diverse press, and that is as it should be.
That is completely unacceptable, and we need to do all we can to help those who are displaying any final remnant of freedom and of plurality in this country.
In this context, I should like to ask you, Commissioner, to make a statement, here and now, that you will do everything in your power to ensure that the money and the support promised to the media there is actually delivered, and delivered in good time.
I believe that until recently they were still waiting for money from the European Commission from 1997.
Of course, the PPE is no longer a part of many governments, which leaves me some hope.
There are already 120 of us who believe that in this Parliament.
The substance of this resolution is being removed, but it remains on Parliament's agenda.
I believe that this manner of proceeding comes very close to the limits of our Rules of Procedure and, with all due respect to my very good friend Mrs André-Léonard, the situation of the press in Algeria is considerably better than in other countries, such as Tunisia, which is in the papers this morning, and perhaps also her own country.
And it is not the only case in the Union, although I think that certain harmful developments there set it apart from other countries of the European Union.
So, we are doing all we can to undermine the credibility of a country, in this case Algeria, that has a huge problem, that must tackle the transition from a communist regime to a multi-party regime and that has adopted a number of reforms.
We are doing all we possibly can to prevent European investors from believing even for a moment in the possibility of a different future for that country.
You will all remember that the European Parliament delegation, which visited Algeria in February and which was, in fact, led by Mr Soulier, had concluded that Algeria had embarked upon a democratic process following the election of President Amin Zeroual.
However, while any obstacles to this progression towards democracy must be removed, we must not keep our concerns to ourselves or fail to offer the friendly advice that governments who wish to strengthen their relations should offer each other.
All those who visited Algeria noticed the exceptional freedom in the tenor of the newspapers published in Algeria, both French and Arabic.
It is essential for this freedom to be maintained and guaranteed.
That naturally depends on constitutional guarantees, but also on the economic and financial conditions that must prevail in this sector that is part and parcel of democracy.
Mr President, my group is very unhappy, to say the least, at the actions of Milosevic and the Parliament of the former Yugoslavia to suppress freedom of expression.
The Council of Ministers must remain very vigilant when it comes to political and military developments in Kosovo and we must keep the military stick to hand if we want to lend force to our policy regarding Milosevic.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Milosevic has not only waged a war for nine years, a war which began in Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia.
Negotiations were supposed to start on 4 November - I did not see anything of the sort.
With Milosevic, Serbia can never become a democracy!
Mr President, the closure of newspapers, the imposition of fines and the persecution of journalists once more show President Milosevic for what he is before the international community.
The government in Belgrade must understand that the tactics it is pursuing will not help to solve the enormous problems that prevail in the area.
The European Parliament calls on Belgrade to change its attitude.
The Serbian people and Milosevic are still lumped together in accordance with a thesis of collective guilt, something from which other nations have also had to suffer.
There will never be peace and freedom in the region unless Milosevic finally disappears and ends up before the International Court!
So the decision taken on 17 July in Rome to establish the world's first international criminal court is of historic significance.
It is clear to me that in this case, when a request has been made for extradition for crimes against humanity, a permanent international criminal court could certainly be very useful.
That should in fact show that we really do lack international criminal law and an institution such as an International Criminal Court.
Akin Birdal Mr President, in its progress report on Turkey the Commission has already stated that human rights activist Akin Birdal most certainly did not receive a fair trial.
Mr President, Commissioner, I met Akin Birdal about two weeks ago in Turkey.
I would advise the Turkish Government really to make use of the present situation to talk to people like Akin Birdal, who display a balanced, reasonable attitude, and to solve the internal crisis in Turkey, in particular the Kurdish issue.
I of all people, who make every effort to build up decent relations between the European Union and Turkey - and have been to Turkey three times this year and held talks for that very reason - have to dismiss the Turkish stance.
There should be talks, which must not be held with the PKK, but with Akin Birdal, who is also quite prepared to take part in such talks, so that a solution can be reached providing linguistic and cultural autonomy within a unified Turkey.
Considered in the light of the Kurdish issue in Turkey, Akin Birdal's sentence actually amounts to a ban from politics.
Secondly, we should not forget that the Turkish Parliament is in the process of amending the Criminal Code and deleting Articles 312 and 159, under the terms of which Akin Birdal was sentenced, and also Article 8 of the anti-terror law.
In this situation, it is necessary firstly from a political point of view for Turkey to take the opportunity for dialogue, to which Akin Birdal has always referred; secondly, from a humanitarian point of view, it is necessary for Akin Birdal - the victim of a shady assassination attempt, as a result of which he is still suffering - to be given access to medical care in Europe too.
It is with this in mind, as friends of Turkey, that we need to call on the Turkish Government to change its position.
For us, this issue is much more a touchstone of Turkey's ability to be democratic, and a touchstone of its compliance with human rights.
Mr van den Broek did in fact recently present a report on the state of relations.
That is why I am convinced that we cannot hold out any specific prospects for Turkey's accession, while it is not possible for us to make real progress on these fundamental issues of freedom of expression and human rights.
I think that this would be a practical test of Turkey's ability to have closer relations with Europe.
That is why we in the PPE Group support the joint motion.
Terrorism, flagrant violations of human rights and religious freedom, high-handed and unjustified decisions and even bomb attacks are just some of the elements which make up the picture of the Turkish state's tactics towards the Ecumenical Patriarchate, in other words the world-wide spiritual reference point for 300 million Orthodox Christians.
The issue of the Theological College of Halki yet again highlights the more general problem of respect for human rights in Turkey.
The Turkish Government has to make it clear here that freedom of religion - a fundamental human right - is guaranteed in Turkey.
The Oecumenical Patriarchate demands that this official act be repealed, and here the European Union should make it perfectly clear that this is a basic condition for any further dialogue with Turkey.
I think it is important for our civilisation and for the values professed by the European Union.
The second thing I want to say is that this act by the Turkish Government - I do not say Turkey, I distinguish Turkey, in other words the Turkish people, from the state, the reactionary and fascist regime in power - is undermining the operation of the Patriarchate by depriving it of its functional organ, the College of Halki.
Mr President, Commissioner, the closing of the Halki School in Turkey is just one more stage in a process that has been continuing for years.
Anti-Semitism in Russia Mr President, the primitive, irresponsible and even villainous nature of Makashov's statements revolt and worry us for more than one reason.
Although the economic, social and political situation is alarming, some people cannot resist the temptation to bolster political and national unity by issuing messages of hate and accusation against a particular community, in this case the Jewish community.
When a major catastrophe has befallen the Jewish population on this continent, and when there have been various anti-Semitic actions and statements in Eastern Europe and Russia of all places, it is unacceptable for us to tolerate an anti-Semitic statement now.
We must therefore refute this in the strongest possible terms, and call on the representatives in the Russian Parliament to tell their colleagues quite clearly that an anti-Semitic statement must not and never can be tolerated.
I should like to remind you of one point: Russia is a country in which there is still a so-called autonomous Jewish area today.
These Jews are only one representative example of many others in Russia.
Commissioner, earlier we also debated the issue of food aid.
It distresses me very much to find that after centuries of pogroms and impossible living conditions in the stettels , our colleagues in the Duma are not prepared to denounce violent expressions of anti-Semitism.
Such a measure does not exist in my country but the French courts have clearly understood the need for this.
The removal of the right of xenophobic parties to stand for election must be encouraged.
Mr President, everyone owes it to everyone else to respect their dignity.
The fact is that extreme nationalist groups in Russia are being courted by this kind of despicable populism on the part of a few politicians, and that presents a danger to democracy in the country.
Mr van den Broek, we know that the grass-roots organisations in Moscow are the ones which are trying to take action on this.
It is incredible that some of our fellow Members should consider giving orders to the Duma of the Russian State, as in paragraph 4 of the joint resolution, as though foreigners should command the elected representatives of the people.
The truth is that every possible pretext is sought to weaken Russia or any other nation that resists the new imperialist world order.
And we all agree that this is something that must be condemned.
It is a way of eliminating a person politically.
Mr President, the human rights debates in Parliament are never heartening, but they are nonetheless necessary.
That brings it home to us even more that a great deal has to change in Algeria before it will be possible to speak of a democratic state based on the rule of law.
Most of the media in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia which are now also coming under pressure, such as Radio Index, Donas or Nasa Borba, have received financial assistance from the Community.
In 1997 around ECU 4 million was allocated to support the independent media in Yugoslavia, while in 1998 the figure was more than ECU 5.6 million of the total amount of ECU 10 million provided for the whole country.
I agree with all that has been said about the International Criminal Court.
We therefore express the hope that the 60 ratifications required will be quickly reached.
Anybody who has already had the chance to see our progress report on the political situation in Turkey will see our concern clearly expressed.
Finally, I fully agree with all that has been said about the resurgence of anti-Semitism in Russia.
Finally, in all probability the Duma will be returning to this question next week and I could well imagine that Members of the European Parliament, who have close contacts with members of the Duma within the Parliamentary Cooperation Council under the partnership agreement between the Union and Russia, will question their colleagues on this subject and express their concern, as we will also be doing in our regular contacts with the Russian Government.
Thank you very much, Mr President, that concludes what I wanted to say on these matters.
Madam President, I asked the Commissioner quite specifically whether he was prepared to do everything in his power to ensure that the money set aside for the Serbian press or other media is also actually paid out quickly.
But then, according to Rule 102(1), that would not be possible, because they are not available in all the languages.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a few moments.
Any other system would be detrimental to enterprise and initiative in business development within the European Union.
The European patent system is based on the Munich Convention of 1973, which is an intergovernmental agreement.
Patents issued under this Convention can be applied in all the countries which have ratified it, which include all the EU countries and many others.
There have subsequently been attempts to introduce two other patent conventions or agreements: the Luxembourg Convention of 1975 on the Community patent, supplemented by the 1989 Agreement relating to Community patents.
These two instruments have still not entered into force.
We believe that the introduction of a Community patent is a completely superfluous arrangement.
Since attempts have been made at agreements on Community patents which have still not entered into force after 23 years, why should we make the same mistake again now?
We have therefore voted against the report.
In recital J it is stated that 'Member States must not abandon their national languages' in respect of patents and patent rights.
Hoppenstedt report (A4-0362/98) The European Union has forged a reputation for itself in the aeronautical and space industry.
The large American enterprises, in particular, are pursuing a relentless strategy of attack.
We cannot therefore allow this sector of jobs to gradually disappear.
Nor can we leave ourselves without this industry if we still wish to comply with our responsibilities in the area of foreign policy and international diplomacy.
This position conflicts with Denmark's stance on defence and security policy, and we have therefore abstained on paragraphs 6 and 7, since we do not wish to stand in the way of other Member States moving in this direction.
As the rapporteur on a related Commission communication on defence related industries, I warmly welcome Mr Hoppenstedt's Report on the aerospace sector.
The communication from the European Commission analyses the current situation of the aerospace industry.
I fully agree with our rapporteur's opinion on the statement by Germany, France and the United Kingdom of 9 December 1997, and on the letter of intent from the German, Spanish, French, Italian, Swedish and British Ministers for Defence.
The proposed coordination of activities in the aerospace industry is commendable, but there should be no linkage with military activities as proposed in paragraph 6, which mentions the need to develop the next generation of military aircraft.
The FPÖ supports the political statements and the declarations of intent in this motion for a resolution, but is abstaining from the vote on the text as a whole, because the additional increase in financial and economic aid to this region, as called for in the motion, does not appear to be adequately structured or guaranteed to be efficient.
In short, we must give a response that is in line with the area of freedom, security and justice we are in the process of building with the third pillar.
Madam President, those who say that the Structural Funds or the Cohesion Fund should be restricted for those Member States that are allegedly hindering these measures are not helping matters either.
Those in favour of unanimity are merely showing that they are aware of the fact that, through hard work, 15 Member States reached a pact in Amsterdam that states that, for five years, decisions in this area must be taken unanimously.
Therefore, Madam President, I repeat: we have tabled amendments in favour of unanimity and, realistically speaking, we want this proposal to move forward.
We will politically support this proposal through our governments, but we believe that it will only move forward if we respect what was agreed at Amsterdam, and this requires the 15 Member States to reach an agreement rather than a qualified majority.
Madam President, the Socialist side of the House is currently undergoing a very interesting process of change.
I really should like to say that Germany, for example, has, over a period of ten years, admitted an average of 50 % of all asylum seekers, and at times up to two thirds of all refugees of civil war.
We want to give them protection and security, but it is precisely when I want to do this that I need acceptance, and I can only win this acceptance if the burden of admitting the people is shared, so that quite rightly the burden falls equally on each of the Member States.
We are still a very long way from this; we would be happy if at least a first step were taken here towards more Europe, but this pseudo-proposal is a step towards less Europe.
Solidarity is reciprocal, though, and this problem can affect all Member States to different degrees and at different times.
We must not stand by and watch until the influxes of refugees descend upon us; instead, we must intervene in good time - as for example in Kosovo - to ensure that the conditions are created on the ground to enable people to live in safety in their homes.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has taken note of the two reports by Mr Wiebenga on the Commission's amended proposal concerning temporary protection for displaced persons and the proposal concerning burden-sharing.
The background to the initiative is that a year ago, the negotiations on our original proposal reached stalemate within the Council of Ministers.
What was needed was both a revised proposal on temporary protection and a more clearly defined idea of how the negotiations on burden-sharing within the Union should proceed.
As the rapporteur has noted, the proposal relating to temporary protection is still broadly the same as before.
The other part of the proposal concerns an instrument for reaching a decision on the introduction and phasing-out of a temporary protection regime.
The initiative has thus enabled us to have a coherent discussion on the principles involved in this issue for the first time since I became Commissioner, and I appreciate this.
The discussions which took place in Vienna also revealed that all the Member States understood what the new proposal entailed, and that their expectations of practical results in the areas of migration and asylum had increased.
The Austrian Presidency estimates that it should be possible to produce at least a progress report for the Council meeting on 3 and 4 December.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly not the most important report of the week.
In the second part of the report, the airport transit visas, the same problem occurs, amongst others.
I should like to ask you to vote in favour, here in the plenary, of the corrections decided on by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, and on that note I would conclude my statement on this not especially important, but perhaps also not wholly insignificant report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the uniform format for the form is concerned, I agree with the rapporteur that this can actually be adopted as it stands following our vote in the committee.
Parliament has always given priority to procedures which allow decisions to be taken by a qualified majority.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, unanimity will, unfortunately, be the rule in the case of visa arrangements for a further five years, before decisions are taken by a qualified majority.
In the field of, 'visas, asylum, immigration and other policies related to free movement of persons', the Council will act by a qualified majority in the foreseeable future.
I also support the rapporteur's view that we are in the business of adopting uniform arrangements in Europe in the fields covered by Title IV of the Amsterdam Treaty.
In that sense, the European Commission's role will in any case need to be increased accordingly.
The legal base of Article K.3 only provides for cooperation with the Member States in this field.
In the committee, we have already made both the arrangements applicable to statutory stateless persons and refugees and the exceptions to the requirement for a visa dependent on a joint decision in the Council.
I therefore also urge you to support the corresponding amendment to delete Article 4.
Article 9 gives each individual Member State the possibility of suspending the positive lists.
I would therefore urge you to continue on the path which Parliament has already chosen, and also to delete Article 9.
Madam President, I would firstly like to say that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that the PPE will follow his advice and broadly support his report.
Madam President, today we are examining two draft joint actions put forward by the Council aimed at harmonising some specific aspects of visa policy and airport transit policy.
As regards the joint action concerning the uniform format of visas and, in particular, the analysis of the legal basis, we agree with the view of the rapporteur and the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs, which has studied the relevant legal basis for this action, that the proposal should come from the European Commission and not the Council.
It should be a proposal for a directive rather than for joint action and thus come under the Community's immigration and asylum policy, as recommended in the Amsterdam Treaty, instead of within the context of a cooperation policy of the Member States.
What is more - and here we are focusing on the content of the proposal -, it is no use giving a general description of a uniform format for visas at European level so that, ultimately, Member States can decide on the technical procedures they wish to use.
We cannot allow this to make it more difficult for refugees and asylumseekers to reach a safe country.
Finally, I should like to remind the House that the Amsterdam Treaty has still not come into force and therefore cannot be used as a reference in this context.
And this is the real problem in terms of the institutional evolution of the European Union.
These two proposals form part of an ongoing process.
However, when the Amsterdam Treaty enters into force it will regroup all aspects of visa policy in the first pillar under Title IV.
Let me outline to you the Commission's view on these two draft actions.
Firstly, we have the new proposal from the Council for a joint action relating to air transit arrangements based on Article K.3.
The Court of Justice has confirmed in 1998 that this action falls under Article K.3.
This new proposal for a joint action aims at incorporating two additional elements.
Firstly, the common short list of countries is extended to include Bangladesh and Pakistan.
The second proposal from the Council concerns a joint action for a uniform format for forms for affixing visas.
The aim is to reach a certain level of harmonisation in order to upgrade security standards in two exceptional cases.
The Commission has some concerns about the legal basis, which has been chosen for this proposal.
However, it might also be argued that such a form constitutes an integral part of the uniform visa format itself.
In that case Article 100c of the EC Treaty might apply.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
