Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 9 October 1998.
Statement by the President It gives me enormous pleasure to be able to share with you all today my joy at the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to John Hume and David Trimble.
Over the years the European Parliament has been constant in its support for the peace process in Northern Ireland.
The road to peace is not assured.
Just as the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to John Hume and David Trimble must fortify the people of Northern Ireland in their quest for peace, so must the award reinforce our own solidarity and that of the international community as a whole in the peace process.
Here in the European Parliament we are proud to salute our colleague John Hume. (Applause) Mr President, I appreciate and thank you for your kind words.
I am sure all our colleagues will share our great joy and pride in this unique honour paid to John Hume and to David Trimble.
After all the anguish and despair of the last 30 years this is a wonderful tribute to the consistent belief on John Hume's part that the non-violent path to peace in Northern Ireland was the only way.
I would like to thank you and join with all our colleagues in expressing our great joy and support for John Hume and David Trimble in the work they are doing in Northern Ireland.
Thank you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity of congratulating John Hume who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday last.
I sincerely hope - as do all in this House - that this will further the peace process and bring us to the day when in the North of Ireland we will have peace with justice.
John Hume has spent 30 years of his life on this, ably assisted and with the strong support of his wife Pat - and I would pay tribute to her also.
Mr President, I would also like, on behalf of my group, to congratulate the Nobel Committee in Oslo on such a splendid and well-balanced choice.
We know John Hume here in Parliament as a man who has consistently worked for peace - certainly during the 19 years I have known him here.
My group was the first in Parliament to hold study days in Belfast.
For my Group, I could agree entirely with the words of Senator George Mitchell of the United States, who for almost three years also made a significant personal contribution to the search for peace in Northern Ireland.
Mr President, I wish to express my great disappointment that we have moved to this event before John Hume has arrived.
We notified your Office that we would make sure that Mr Hume would be here in about 20 minutes.
It is a great shame and we would have done Parliament a service and paid one of our Members a great tribute had we been able to say these things to his face, in his presence and give him the recognition and tribute he deserves.
While I am always happy to speak on that subject, the main reason that I spoke was to comment on the success of a Labour MEP in having his remarks about having to ring No 10 Downing Street to find out which way to vote expunged from the record.
I asked a question at that time: is this facility open to other members?
Mr President, I merely wanted to state that I was present at the sitting of Tuesday, 6 October; I was also allocated speaking time and I participated in the vote.
Mr Carnero, we have already listened to your opinion, just as we have listened to the opinion of other Members.
Mr President, I should like to reassure Mrs Lulling that the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on my report was adopted unanimously and in full by the Committee on Budgets, without the slightest alteration.
It can therefore easily be included in the final vote.
By guaranteeing a consistent and high level of training of safety advisers, Community legislation will help, firstly, to improve transport safety - which is also a priority of this Parliament - and, secondly, to dismantle distortions of competition and to harmonise competitive opportunities between companies from the various Member States.
In order to keep administration and loss of information to a minimum, information should not be exchanged directly by the Member States, but through the European Commission.
The Socialist Group supports the final aim of the Directive in this instance, even though a number of issues need to be clarified.
Since firms have until 31 December 1999 to appoint one or more safety advisers, it made sense for the standards and content of the vocational training courses and exams for the safety advisers to be harmonised.
Mr President, this report deals with the qualifications and criteria for granting a safety advisor's permit for the transport of dangerous goods.
Point 9 of the report describes the cooperation between the Member States and the Commission.
Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Koch on his excellent work in drafting this report on the harmonisation of examination requirements for safety advisors for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterways.
As the House will know, the 1996 directive relating to safety advisers already ensures that all companies whose activities include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway are obliged to appoint at least one safety adviser whose professional competence is to be achieved by special training, subjected to examination and proved by certification.
I am also pleased to say, therefore, that the Commission can accept Amendment No 1, both parts (one and two), Amendment Nos 2, 4, 5, 7, 9 and 10 since they are consistent with the aims of the proposal.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, my credentials for speaking about canals are based simply on the fact that the Forth and Clyde canal starts in my constituency at Bowling, near Clydebank and goes right across to Grangemouth.
Both the proposal and the committee report deal with these technicalities but the rapporteur, in my opinion, has successfully explained the complexities of the three different regimes in Europe for carrying dangerous goods on inland waterways.
One is the Central Commission of the Rhine, the first transnational body, the first genuine European body established after the Congress of Vienna and confirmed with the Mannheim Convention in 1836.
The alignment of technical and safety standards to the highest possible level is extremely important.
The clear message was that we have good working rules here and we want the best practice adopted for the rest of Europe.
I do not know if Commissioner Kinnock is involved personally, but the Commission is involved in discussions in Geneva on this issue, working out what will precede harmonisation to establish standardised procedures for inland waterway vessels.
The Konrad report is important in these discussions.
Mr Konrad highlights this in his report.
We support the reports of Mr Konrad and Mr McMahon, but they are only part of the important place we need to attribute to inland waterways.
Mr President, as the honourable Members will know, the aim of the Commission proposal is to update Directive 82/714/EEC in line with the technical progress made since 1982.
Given that operations on the Rhine represent more than half of the inland waterway transport in Europe and the applicable technical standards are among the highest in the world, the Commission believes that the uniform set of rules that is now proposed for the whole Union will be in the interests of the whole industry.
This development means upgrading to Rhine standards; it means automatic recognition between the Community certificate and the Rhine certificate for inland waterway vessels; and the clarity and uniformity which will result will, of course, also facilitate the negotiations with the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe, whose technical standards will, obviously, have to be adapted before future accession to the Union - a point raised by several honourable Members in the course of the debate.
The proposal allows the Commission to update regularly the annexes of the directive, with the assistance of a committee consisting of representatives of the Member States.
That mechanism will ensure that the rules applicable in the Union take full account of the latest technical standards, in particular those developed in the context of the Rhine.
The Commission is, of course, willing to inform Parliament at any time, but it cannot make a formal commitment in the articles of this directive simply because of that procedural reason.
The debate is closed.
The Commission is being far too lenient towards Member State governments that are totally disregarding EU directives on protection of the environment in some cases.
Nitrates in drinking water are considered a health problem for human beings because nitrate rapidly reduces to nitrite in the body.
There is also a serious problem with nitrite when it reacts with compounds in the stomach to form products which have been found to be carcinogenic in many animals.
In the EU the concentration of nitrate in water has been regulated by two directives: the 1975 Surface Water for Abstraction of Drinking Water Directive and the 1980 Drinking Water Directive.
Although this level is now widely accepted for human health, Greenpeace is campaigning for an even stricter limit value of 10 mg/l, especially in order to take account of the health impact on babies.
Apart from the health problems, we have to take into account the problems of eutrophication.
So even if the present trend towards intensive animal husbandry is stopped and reversed now, it will take some 20 to 30 years before the surface and ground waters of Europe are healthy again.
In some areas it may take 40 or 50 years before an ecologically sound situation is restored.
Despite the fact that action programmes should have been presented by all Member States by 28 December 1995 at the very latest, by spring 1998 only six Member States, namely Austria, Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Sweden had done so.
My own country, Ireland, maintains that there is no problem as regards nitrates but the most recent coast watch survey published in December last year displayed some quite alarming findings.
The most alarming was the high incidence of nitrate pollution with 40 % of the 242 inflows tested showing levels of 25 % mg/l or more and in 15 cases over 100 mg/l.
It is seeking a 25 % Community subsidy.
The farmers are again looking for more money to deal with problems they have themselves created.
We in the Agriculture Committee take this matter very seriously.
The Agriculture Committee feels that the Commission could have done more to guide the Member States to try and make this directive more effective in the future.
Substantial improvements are needed in the directive itself because of the lack of progress that has been made, and the Agriculture Committee feels that there must be a better understanding of the total problem so that the agriculture industry can react as part of the reform of agricultural policy as a whole.
The last point I wish to mention is the deplorable situation with regard to reporting to the Commission.
We in Parliament must support the Commission in its efforts to put pressure on the Member States.
We all agree in principle.
The European Parliament should encourage the Commission to take stricter action against the Member States which have not yet fulfilled their obligations arising from the directive.
Her analysis of the situation in the Member States is critical but fair, given that no fewer than eleven Member States are disregarding a 1991 directive, either totally or in part.
I cannot contradict the rapporteur when she speaks of a lack of political will in Flanders.
Mrs McKenna, your report has stirred things up a bit in Flanders and has caused the talks on a new fertiliser decree to move up a gear.
Nowhere is there the same positive commitment to environmental management as in my own country.
Our tourism, and in particular our agri-tourism, are closely linked to the countryside.
It is wrong and harmful to suggest that the government and farmers are indifferent to environmental protection.
The government has responded positively to Commission comments with regard to nitrates in groundwater and has in fact established that phosphorous represents a greater threat.
In both cases the government, farming organisations and farmers are committed to eliminating any possible threat to the environment and in particular the quality of groundwater.
And it is a public health matter, too, because the World Health Organisation and the FAO say that it is necessary to remain below 50 milligrams/litre and that, for the safety of nursing infants, the level should not exceed 10 milligrams/litre.
This is therefore a clear case of non-compliance with Community law.
Nonetheless, we feel that the European Commission has done the right thing in initiating infringement procedures because it is the only way to persuade the governments to take measures relating to the nitrates in drinking water.
The Dutch Government has said as much itself.
At present, the nitrate levels in our drinking water are four times the levels permitted or envisaged.
But even though the Commission has twice, in 1995 and 1997, found Flanders to be in breach of the rules, things have still not improved.
It is not the majority of the population that wants this - the majority currently in power in Flanders has given in to the farm lobby, which has secured a fertiliser action plan for 1995 that in no way meets the targets set in the directive, neither as regards standards nor as regards a code of good farm practice.
Years ago, all the Member States agreed on a standard of 50 mg of nitrate per litre of groundwater, but most Member States have not got anywhere near that.
Mr President, the issue of nitrates in water does indeed pose a problem, but it is one which forms part of a wider and more global problem that I shall endeavour to outline here.
Such irresponsible practices have a great many consequences, but some are more serious than others.
The agricultural policy which is part of Agenda 2000 is an important instrument for controlling agricultural emissions.
And it should also have been emphasised that only four Member States have transposed the directive, namely, Denmark, Spain, France and Luxembourg.
In other areas in Portugal there can be as many as five head per hectare.
The problem is a completely different one in that, when we spread nitrates on the soil, we do so in the summer when there is a smaller chance of polluting the groundwater.
The figure should in reality - as the rapporteur also pointed out - be down to 10 mg per litre, as recommended by the WHO, FAO and Greenpeace, since at this concentration drinking water would become safe for children.
We must not forget that the nitrate issue is a serious health problem and, in the light of the very serious environmental and health-related nature of the nitrate problem, the calls made in the report with a view to bringing about a solution are too vague.
With these comments in mind, I hope that the European Parliament will give its support to the report, since its demands constitute an important step in the right direction.
This is her first day in this Parliament.
The report rightly highlights the slow pace of implementation of this directive.
As Ritt Bjerregaard made clear before, the present situation is indefensible and completely unacceptable to the Commission.
The resolution before the House calls on us to speed up our infringement proceedings, and what I will try to do this evening is to explain in some detail exactly what progress has been made since the implementation report.
But only two out of seven Member States with no vulnerable zones have now made their designations and only two out of ten in breach of the action programmes - the critical application - have established them.
Thirty-two cases have been opened against 13 Member States - all except Finland and Sweden - of which 9 have been closed because of the progress that has been made.
If they are slow or reluctant, then all we can do is undertake our best efforts, as everyone in this House, will know.
I hope that the honourable Member understands our motivation in that.
They are testimony to Ritt Bjerregaard's work and they will be further reinforced in Agenda 2000, which also continues the decoupling of aid from production and proposes new instruments of potential environmental interest.
The integration strategy, obviously, also involves Member States and this Parliament, as well as the Commission.
The debate is closed.
Hence this own-initiative report from the Environment Committee.
We know from serious cases of medication wrongly prescribed by doctors that foetuses have been damaged in the mother's womb, in some cases involving damage that only manifested itself when the young person reached the age of reproduction.
It must also get a serious grip on its system of risk assessment and systematically apply group classification.
It must also support research in priority areas, such as long-range studies of sperm quality, and must support research on the causes of the increase in rates of breast cancer and testicular cancer.
The EU must apply the precautionary principle in concrete instances and hence consider phasing out substances which are simultaneously carcinogenic, allergenic and bronchially irritant.
When this report was being discussed in the Environment Committee, we were given some very unsatisfactory answers by the Commission's officials, so I hope that the answers we receive this evening will be clearer.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, endocrine disruptors are substances that act chiefly by mimicking the action of natural hormones or by interfering with their metabolism.
For my part, I am reluctant to give my full support to the rapporteur, even though his dossier is a particularly difficult one.
Aside from the linguistic amendments to Recommendations Nos 7, 29 and 31 by the rapporteur, I am tabling an oral amendment to Recommendation No 28 by the rapporteur, which is aimed at establishing the existence of a dose/effect relationship.
In its report, the Committee lists 25 pesticides which are permitted in the Union but are suspected of having a harmful effect on human and animal hormone systems.
It is astonishing that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development should make stricter demands in the area of pesticides than the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
Those chemicals called endocrine disrupters - not endocrine modulators, as some would have them known - are present in many different plastics and many other products including food wrappers, paints and pesticides.
Their long-term effects could be even more serious, including hypospadias, undescended testes and a range of reproductive difficulties in both males and females, which we really must take action about now.
The long-term effects of these chemicals are certainly very serious on the basis of the evidence we have seen.
Paragraph 35 of our rapporteur's resolution is particularly important, where she calls on the European Commission to review the procedures relating to the marketing of chemical products for this purpose.
My colleague Mr Valverde López referred to NO, which is in fact nitric oxide.
In the Great Lakes some 16 species have been affected.
I also think the way in which the Commission is dealing with the data on phthalates in children's toys is scandalous.
I should like to point out to the House at this point that we will ask for a roll-call vote as it is very important that we now increase pressure on the Commission on this issue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, chemical substances which make their way into the environment could be a possible cause of endocrine disruptions.
In the amendments which I tabled in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy and also in the Committee on Women's Rights, I have tried to draw attention to this.
We owe it to the responsible citizens of the European Union to proceed in this manner, as we do not want to frighten them but to inform them, and their health protection must be our main priority.
The Commission can, therefore, support the calls in the draft resolution to examine the adequacy of existing legislation and, if necessary, to consider adapting it appropriately in order to address endocrine disruption.
The Community is currently participating in international negotiations for a global instrument on POPs.
It will, therefore, be necessary to make dependable public information available through appropriate channels in a more efficient and effective form, as indeed the report recommends.
The debate is closed.
It is of primary importance to incorporate that strategy in the various Community policies in the context of the Agenda 2000 programme.
The Committee on Fisheries calls on the Commission to set up a scientific working party to develop an action plan for research into the interaction between fisheries and marine ecosystems.
The research results available so far are, in this area at least, inadequate.
For this reason we in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development cannot comprehend why the regulation approved by the Commission and Parliament on the placing on the market of plant varieties has still not been adopted by the Council, why the Commission's support for cooperation between the Member States' own programmes, the gene banks and the informal sector has only been half-hearted, cumbersome and ineffective, and why even DG VI is toying with the idea of allowing the only integrated programme for the conservation, characterisation, collection and use of genetic diversity in agriculture to expire in 1999.
Mr President, I must repeat a point already made by previous speakers, namely that the most recent studies of the dispersion of different species in our natural environments point to a steady decline in biodiversity in Europe.
It is therefore most important that, in application of the Convention on Biological Diversity, the issue of biodiversity should be integrated into Community policies thanks to this communication.
We could doubtless support the call for measures in this area with the need to safeguard biological diversity.
To give you a recent example: the Union gives subsidies to sheep farmers in Crete, which leads to overgrazing and soil erosion, with terrible consequences for biodiversity.
My idea is that the Structural Funds could also be used for Natura 2000 and for implementation of the habitats and birds directives.
I hope the House will endorse this idea from the Environment Committee when we vote on the budget on Thursday.
Mr President, our biodiversity is exposed to many threats.
The latest issue of the Malaysian-based journal Third World Resurgence reports on how a few large western corporations are effectively destroying biological diversity in the agricultural sector by their abusive exploitation of genetic engineering techniques and patent rights.
I am not happy that many of the Member States have not yet done their homework.
The implementation of the habitats and birds directives has also been blocked.
Nobody has yet proposed a serious funding plan for Natura 2000.
Mr President, the Commission says in its communication on biodiversity that a Community strategy is needed to turn the tide in Europe.
This is an international issue which warrants joint action by the Member States.
Mr President, I think we all support this communication from the Commission, which reflects the concern of the Community's institutions in complying with international agreements and in carrying out another of our obligations, that is, making environmental policy a dimension of all other policies.
Clearly this Parliament is actively engaged in promoting the integration of environmental concerns in all areas and the Commission welcomes the support given to the biodiversity communication by the opinions from the committees and, indeed, by this report.
The Sjöstedt report will obviously be useful in this process.
First, in paragraph 14 there is a request for an action plan to be adopted by the European Parliament and the Council - or at least for all the plans to be adopted by the European Parliament and the Council.
Legislative proposals that may be contained in those action plans must obviously be adopted in accordance with the legislative procedures.
Thirdly, in paragraph 43 there is a request for some principles under the biodiversity convention to take precedence over other international agreements concluded by the Community, for example under the World Trade Organization regime.
The Commission's position is that environmental agreements are at the same level as trade agreements and should be implemented in a mutually consistent way.
The Commission will be reporting both to Parliament and to the Council regularly on the implementation of the strategy.
Cooperation with Member States and with a wider public in this process is obviously vital in order to ensure that in conjunction with national efforts, the implementation of a Community biodiversity strategy helps to reverse those negative - indeed, ruinous - trends, as biodiversity is reduced, not only in the Community but also more widely in our continent and indeed throughout the world.
The debate is closed.
