Mr President, I have asked for the floor on a point of order pursuant to Rule 48 of our Rules of Procedure.
On 19 November in Brussels, I did in fact make a declaration pursuant to that Rule which I hoped to see included in the register on the regularity and transparency of procedures governing certain expenditure of our Parliament.
I did so because I think ordinary Members need to make their position clear on the allegations that have been made and solutions need to be found to deal with the problems affecting certain parliamentary operating expenses and investment expenditure.
Yesterday, Mr President, you stated that my written declaration was unacceptable, when the only condition laid down by Rule 48 of our Rules of Procedure is that this declaration must fall within the sphere of activities of the European Union.
Yet declarations on issues such as a general ban on landmines and other subjects have been ruled acceptable, as you are well aware, Mr President.
That is true, Mr President, of any written declaration dealing with the activities of the European Union.
You are a member of that committee.
Mr Gallagher, you know perfectly well this is not the time to raise this matter.
Votes Mr President, the Green Group supports this compromise.
On Amendment No 114 Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party asked for a split vote on this.
In actual fact this means in relation to the compromise amendment, adopted in paragraph 3, that Slovakia will not be offered a pre-accession agreement.
As rapporteur I am in any case against this.
If we leave this section out of paragraph 140, in relation to what has been adopted in paragraph 3, it will result in Slovakia not getting a pre-accession agreement.
Mr President, we have been following this vote with great interest.
Secondly, I think there are quite a few problems with the English version, especially in paragraph 22.
Lastly, the German version of Amendment No 26 is completely unrelated to the English text, which was the original version, or to the Spanish version I was given, or to the French version which I have also checked.
The last sentence should say, in German: ' Befürwortet die Beibehaltung eines Kohäsionsfonds' .
That makes three minutes I have been asking your assistants for the floor on paragraph 15.
Mr President, when a group calls for a roll call vote, I would just be grateful if you would take that vote.
It was on paragraph 15.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, before we reached the original paragraph an amendment was passed which replaced it.
If the original text is poor, we vote against, and we vote against the whole thing.
That is quite normal.
We voted on Amendment No 9 from the Liberal Group, which was passed.
We then voted against Amendment No 21.
The text is therefore replaced by an amendment that was passed.
You did not ask for a roll call vote on Amendment No 9, only on the text.
Oostlander and Barón Crespo report (A4-0368/97) Madam President, when future historians come to judge our epoch, the chapter on the wall between east and west will be important.
The question is whether we will call the chapter the fall of the wall or the moving of the wall.
The name of our group is Europe of Nations.
However, by abstaining on the final vote we are making a statement that we feel that the final text is insufficiently clear on the question of differentiation.
In these circumstances, absolute clarity is required and for that reason we believe that the five plus one option, with a reinforced accession strategy for all applicant states, is the right way forward.
Today was a great day for the Parliament, because the heaven and hell strategy of the Commission has foundered, namely the idea of raising five countries into heaven and banishing five to hell, although all ten - including the EU itself - belong in the purgatory of profound political and economic reforms.
We want a process of application for membership which is, as it were, open as far as the results are concerned and which includes all applicant countries.
We have about ten years available to make a success of the European Union and become organized with some thirteen new Member States.
The least collapse in the negotiations would slow down the reforms already launched and would immobilize all the efforts of the candidates.
The time has come for our Parliament to take a position on the Commission communication "Agenda 2000 - for a stronger and wider Union' .
We want to enlarge our Community, certainly, but not at any price.
The Oostlander-Barón Crespo report, which the European Parliament has just devoted to the enlargement strategy proposed by the Commission in the Agenda 2000 programme, is about a politically indispensable change, but a descent into a financial impasse at the same time.
The expression bears every interpretation, including European super-state, and the "federal perspective' of the existing Union, as in paragraph 35 which this House has specifically just voted for.
Balance between policies - the internal market and economic and social cohesion - balance in our budgets and, most of all, balance between institutions in the European decision-taking process.
Our fundamental position on the enlargement of the EU is that the Union should welcome European states which fulfill the requirements of democracy, and in which the majority of the population have shown through a democratic process that they want to be part of the Union.
We have voted against several paragraphs in the report.
We do not believe enlargement can be made conditional on new centralistic institutional reforms.
A future enlargement must instead be characterized by respect for the applicant countries and their circumstances.
We agree to the Amendment No 97 relating to point 85 of the Oostlander report.
The first part of the sentence deleted in the amendment relating to the time and financing plans appears to be sensible.
This is important from the point of view of the Danish Social Democrats, because we believe it is very important to send a signal to all the applicant countries that they have the possibility of joining the Union.
However, the report on 'Agenda 2000 - for a stronger and wider Union' poses problems in some areas.
It was therefore necessary to vote against some paragraphs in the report.
In reality the report merely reproduces the Commission's current attitude to the demands on the central and eastern European countries.
The Commission's proposal of a division into an A team and a B team creates new walls between the applicant countries in the Baltic for example, and makes the enlargement process more difficult.
In our view, there should be at least three criteria for enlargement.
During the accession negotiations the applicant countries should be treated as full and equal partners.
Before the admission of the new countries the EU should initiate an institutional reform which can ensure that an EU with 25 countries can also function properly and effectively.
It should also be stressed that great weight should be given to EU rules in the area of the environment, and the length of the transition period for the future Member States should be reduced further.
However, all in all we must express great satisfaction both with the Parliament's report and the Commission's Agenda 2000.
Certain sectors of agriculture will lose up to 50 % of their income and, in general, European agriculture will lose some ECU 20.5 billion, or more than 20 % of its net added value for the year 1996.
Furthermore, and in an underhand way, the Commission proposes setting a ceiling on aid per farm.
The resolution we have just examined should have been the occasion for this Parliament to send a strong and clear message to our partners in central and eastern Europe.
Colom i Naval report (A4-0331/97) The scenario for the financial perspectives presented by the Commission in the Agenda 2000 programme at least has the merit of demonstrating that, keeping the policies constant, equilibrium is, in the end, impossible.
In Agenda 2000, we are presented with the prospect of an enlargement where the new arrivals will fairly rapidly attain a level of economic and political integration allowing them to participate on an equal footing in the mechanisms of a monolithic European Union.
The Commission is not succeeding in freeing up the ECU 76 billion of subsidies over eight years, while, by comparison, an effort comparable to that made by Germany for the eastern Länder would have required ECU 3, 400 billion.
The only solution, here too, is to reconsider this model, and I go into more detail on this in my explanation of vote on the Oostlander report.
Madam President, the ambition of the Agenda 2000 proposals is to remodel the face of the political structure of Europe.
At the risk of repeating ourselves, we reaffirm our will to see this new objective 2 at least include a specific and independent sub-objective entitled "rural areas' and another called "maritime zones' , with, for rural policy, a programming period equal to that of the CAP.
As we cannot currently find a satisfying response to our expectations in the Agenda 2000 proposals, we are obliged to condemn its existing content.
We also distance ourselves from paragraph 18 of the report on keeping unused funds in a special reserve fund.
However, despite raising these questions about the financial perspective, I totally support enlargement and strongly believe that our approach should not be based on pessimism or narrow selfish national interest.
Furthermore the economic and political stabilization of central and eastern Europe will have a positive impact on the economy of the European Union.
We have abstained from the vote on the report because we do not want to pave the way for a further increase in the EU's total budget, partly for reasons of principle, but also because we fear that new resources for the EU, even if they are intended to support central and eastern Europe, will be taken from aid for developing countries from the Member States.
It is important to provide these countries with a continued incentive to prepare for a future admission to the European Union.
The report goes further than the Commission on the question of the ceiling on taxation and can conceive of a taxation in excess of 1.27 % of GDP.
The report recognizes these difficulties, and the Committee on Budgets cautions the Commission against being too optimistic in its assessment of the current ceiling on own resources of 1.27 % of GDP.
It is too early to say that the ceiling for own resources is untouchable when we are facing the admission of 100 million new EU citizens who will increase the total GDP by only 5 %.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am honoured to present this report on economic policy coordination in Stage 3 of EMU - in other words, the policy which constitutes the basis of the euro.
This new situation represents a qualitative change of great importance for the consolidation and creation of the economic and monetary dimension required by a genuine economic and monetary policy of the scale of EMU.
However, we are not presenting the ideal choices here, but possible choices, based on what was established in the treaties, Regulations 1466/97 and 1467/97 (on surveillance and coordination of economic and monetary policies and excessive deficits) and the stability pact, to which has been added the recommendation of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, incorporating what was established in the Treaty of Amsterdam, and the conclusions of the Luxembourg summit on employment.
This report is based on three fundamental points.
The first is an ever-increasing coordination between European policies, which is vital for the cohesion and stability of the European Union.
The second point is that this coordination has three aspects: to establish the basis of a coherent and effective economic policy at European Union level; to ensure political debate on the various economic choices; and to improve the decision-making process to ensure effectiveness and transparency.
The third point is that the Member States should adapt to the process of multilateral surveillance and to a better coordination of their economic policies, in accordance with the aforementioned Regulation 1466/97.
This situation should be reinforced by the establishment of a balanced approach to economic policy, so that the economic dimension can be consistent with the monetary dimension, bearing in mind the economic and monetary objectives based on instruments to guarantee employment and development within a framework of monetary stability and solvency.
Therefore, we propose applying article 118 of the Maastricht Treaty - dealing with social dialogue at the European level - and setting up an annual conference, involving the economic and social partners, encompassing the recommendation of our colleague Mr Fourçans in his report, approved by this House, on the establishment of a committee of economic experts within the European Parliament.
It is important for this report to be approved, and for the Council to take more notice of our proposals, to ensure that the European institutions - the Commission and Parliament - can play a greater role, and to guarantee the new dimension for economic and monetary policy, reinforced by democratic supervision, social dialogue and improved, transparent procedures.
I would like to make it very clear that the Socialist Group supports, and has always supported, the idea of a strengthened Euro Council to help bring about greater economic coordination within the European Union.
But I have to say that many of us are dismayed at the moment at the way in which a number of countries now believe that the Euro Council should in fact merely be an informal intergovernmental Council, not only excluding certain Member States of the European Union, but excluding the Commission and also excluding the supervisory role of the European Parliament.
We want synchronization between the broad economic guidelines and the employment guidelines that will now form an important part of our strategy within the European Union.
I should also like to raise the matter of the participation of national parliaments in this process.
National parliaments will set their national budgets and we must make sure that we have a process of collaboration between the European Parliament and national parliaments as we move towards greater economic coordination.
It is a challenge to this House to work out a system of cooperation between national parliaments and the European Parliament so that all democratic institutions participate in guaranteeing that economic and monetary union is a success.
Mr Gasòliba's report asks the Commission to come forward urgently now with a report addressing how we start to deal with this potential problem that might occur at some undetermined time in the future.
It is time in the European Parliament for us to have our own parliamentary budgets office that can look at the macro-economic policies that are pursued in the European Union and give proper weighty advice to the Commission to ensure that our opinions are properly taken on board by the Commission and the Council.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in our turn we support the broad lines of the Gasòliba I Böhm report.
We are in fact completely in agreement with the oft-expressed need to coordinate economic policies better once monetary union is achieved.
It proves that there is indeed a danger in wanting to make countries participate in Europe when they do not share either the objectives or the methods.
It is to this Parliament that the members of the central bank, the governor of the central bank or the members of the board of directors, must come to give account of themselves.
That would force the unfortunate man to tour round 25 capitals when we enlarge to that size, which is ridiculous and impossible.
Madam President, it is evident that the internal market will take on a new dimension with economic and monetary union and the euro.
This new situation, and we are in agreement with the rapporteur, presupposes real democratic control and an important role for this Parliament.
With regard to economic policy instruments, it is advisable to determine the orientative targets and gradually incorporate the Community economic policies linked to the internal market and take full account, given the extraordinary summit in Luxembourg on employment, of objectives laid down when the guidelines for employment are drawn up.
For example, the difficult question of representation of the economic and monetary union and the euro in the international institutions.
Finally, there is the question of what position, official or more flexible, the consultative authority will adopt towards the countries in the first wave - the X-Council, the representatives of 'in' countries.
The point taken by the Luxembourg Presidency on December 2 in the economic committee has our agreement.
It is clear that the 'out' countries on their own wish cannot stop it and we all have an interest in finding an agreement on this very sensitive point.
While the big bang scenario was not to be recommended when the euro was still uncertain, once the euro is established it may be necessary, around the year 2000, to try to accelerate the process to reduce the kind of monetary schizophrenia we risk experiencing in everyday life when one party to a contract will be talking euro and the other, national currency.
And after the internal market, the single currency, the single central bank, our harmonizing intentions confuse the coordination of policies with a single policy, a single form of economic government, a single state or a federal state, or no state at all but a Euro Council .
Therefore Mr Gasòliba i Böhm raised several important questions and has also found quite well considered answers with which we can proceed but that is not sufficient.
I refer here to Michael Polyanis's great book on "The Great Transformation' .
It is not acceptable, that the centre point of our economic policy in the future will be a central bank, located in the institutional, political and cultural nirvana.
How can we allocate the accessing central and eastern European countries a full place in a European Union with EMU.
We are dealing with the question of how to provide ourselves, in the future, with the resources for devising a global economic policy which takes full account of the interdependence of the European economies, not simply as the sum of national situations, because in a European economy, one plus one does not equal two.
This will be all the more true when we have a central bank president facing twelve, eleven or fifteen economics and finance ministers.
Secondly, we must suggest that the main guidelines for the economic policy of the Member States and the Community in future become the main guidelines of the economic policy of the Union with contributions from the Member States.
The Commission must be present in this institution, all the more so because in the present arrangements it is not invited as such, while the president of the central bank could be.
The essential point is to conclude this agreement at Luxembourg II, because that is the deadline before the move to the euro.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, in agreement with the report by Mr Gasòliba I Böhm, because coordination of economic policies represents a crucial issue for monetary union.
The solution is not there, ladies and gentlemen, and it seems to me it must take other routes.
Coordinating budgetary and fiscal policies means putting clear guidelines in place, established together by the members of the euro zone, in terms of national budgetary deficits - and on this I part company from a certain number of colleagues here - and, as much as possible, should also include the countries which would be likely to enter this zone within a reasonable timescale.
So, they must also participate in economic coordination.
Madam President, this report is both unrealistic and illogical.
A coordinated economic policy in the Union cannot mean the same economic policy.
Madam President, with a year to go until the planned date for the entry into force of the single currency, we still do not have a very good idea of the extent, the substance, or indeed the reality of the economic coordination likely to accompany it.
But all this is still vague and in any case, it certainly does not constitute the economic governance that some consider indispensable to the success of the euro.
For the policy of an independent central bank to be able to deliver convincing results, that bank must be supported by a strong social consensus, which can only result from long positive experience and strong community feeling.
I do not quite understand how such a policy can be developed by a yet to be established economic and financial committee which will be dominated by the central bankers from the national central banks and the European central bank.
This restrictive monetary approach will dominate even more than was the case with its predecessor, the Monetary Committee.
In its decision on growth and employment the European Council of Amsterdam instructed the Commission and the council to investigate economic and financial questions relating to how economic- political coordination can be strengthened within the Community.
The entry into economic monetary union will have a decisive influence on the strengthening and the substance of economic and political coordination.
The employment chapter of the treaty determines that the employment policy guidelines must be consistent with the basic principles of economic policy.
On the other hand in the decision relating to growth and employment which was taken by the European Council in Amsterdam it is stated that in the formulation of the basic principles for economic policy employment programmes covering several years and employment policy guidelines must be followed.
In the same way the Commission in its proposal on employment policy guidelines put forward certain quantitative reference points.
The Commission would like to assure the European Parliament also that it will not hesitate to make use of its right of initiative in accordance with article 103 paragraph 4 in order to ensure the orderly functioning of economic and monetary union in the context of multilateral supervision.
In the matter of extraordinary events or rather asymmetric shocks can confirm to you that the Commission will submit on the occasion of the inspection of the payment balance support mechanism in the coming year a proposal to carry out the terms of article 103a paragraph 2.
Every year the annual economic report enables discussion to begin about the basic principles of economic policy.
Thus the Commission can in preparing its recommendation for the economic and political principles can include the position of Parliament directly.
In this new context of strengthened economic and political coordination the functions fulfilled by the annual economic report could be better specified.
The principles of economic policy remain the instrument which guides the economic and political coordination.
In accordance with the decision of the European Council of Amsterdam on growth and employment these principles will not only deal with problems of convergence, but more and more also with problems in the areas of growth and employment.
The Commission has noted with interest the proposals of the European Parliament.
It shares the desires of Parliament to improve the transparency of procedures for the coordination of economic policy, which are very frequently informal.
Of course in any discussion of an inter-institutional agreement the Council must be included, perhaps even more so than the Commission itself, for it is the Council to which the treaty gives powers of decision making in all procedures of supervision and coordination of economic policy.
The multilateral supervision and the coordination of economic policies must ensure that monetary policies, budgetary policy and economic and employment policy are in mutual harmony.
But I note your comment, which is very germane, and in future we will return to the usual practice.
The debate is closed.
The Member States should also in future have the right to 'tax themselves' and conduct their own policy in this area.
But that should take place through voluntary work between those who wish to do so, not through a system of rules within the European Union.
That means countries which are outside the third stage of EMU, such as Denmark, should also be able to participate in a better coordination of economic policy.
The undersigned voted against the report on the following grounds: 1.The report is unrealistic.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the structural measures in Belgium is another opportunity to highlight the major role of Community measures in favour of economic and social cohesion.
However, this country has wide disparities in development, ranging from GDP per inhabitant of 77 % for Hainaut to 137 % for Antwerp and 183 % for Brussels.
The province of Liège, the regions of Aubange, Turnhout and part of Limburg are eligible for objective 2, as industrial areas in decline.
Without going into detail, the Community measures have had some success, especially the investment aid for SMEs in Hainaut, which has also involved supplementary credit transfers towards these lines.
The Community measures have also played a determinant role in terms of socio-professional integration, for example, and in 1996 over 70, 000 people received personalized training.
But in this Chamber we are aware that structural measures constitute an indispensable tool and support which needs to be improved.
First of all, there is a very low rate of use of appropriations, of the order of 17 % for Hainaut in objective 1, 5-20 % for objective 2 areas, and less than 10 % for objective 5b areas, as a result of the inadequate rate, about 12 %, of commitment of the available appropriations.
Development disparities in areas in difficulty and inadequacies in the use of the budgetary lines for industrial wastelands and the improvement of the environment also subsist.
In particular I draw the attention of the Belgian authorities to the fact that the rate of commitment of the appropriations, as at January 1999, should serve as the reference point for the calculation of the sums allocated as from the year 2000.
It also seems to me indispensable, and now I am addressing the Community authorities, to monitor the measures more actively, and ensure acceleration of the transfer of Community resources to the final recipients by the Belgian authorities.
Finally, in the context of the thinking initiated with Agenda 2000, limiting the current excessive number of measures might be envisaged in the context of the miscellaneous programmes, together with a geographic concentration of resources in favour of administrative divisions which are experiencing the greatest disparities in development.
To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, after the vote this morning on Agenda 2000, to insist again on the need to prolong the cohesion efforts undertaken and to be very careful to organize a substantial transition stage for the Member States which currently make up the European Union and which, like Belgium, will not benefit from objective 1.
Some regions are in effect too small to be able to handle structural funds, but this also applies to other countries in Europe.
But the situation regarding to the training of employees in threatened jobs is pitiful, especially in Flanders where barely 10 % of resources have been allocated, let alone paid out.
Flanders has an expenditure of 12 % against 19 % in Wallonia.
It is well known that by far the most significant part, namely 30 billion Belgian francs, is set aside for the province of Henegouwen as an objective 1 region.
Westhoek and Meetjesland in Flanders are entitled to approximately 2 billion Belgian francs towards rural development.
Up until today only the resources provided for 1994 have been utilized, whilst in the Netherlands, for example, during a comparable period, the resources for 1998 have already been utilized.
The fact Flanders does not tap the resources for 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998, merely underlines their incapacity.
On the other hand the problem of technical support, which in Flanders is already at 4 %, and where it is wished to raise this, whilst the European Commission accepts a maximum of 1.5 %.
The situation concerning the Community Leader programme is extremely worrying, also in the rural policy sector.
May I say that such understanding of the Belgian situation is rare in a Frenchman.
Finally, it should calculate the impact of the plan it is presenting in Agenda 2000, which will in the end make it more difficult to grant aid and will no doubt have the effect of eliminating structural funds measures for Belgian objective 1 and 2 regions.
But to stop in midstream would be counterproductive.
Mr President, there is evident lack of clarity in the strategy followed by the Belgian regional authorities.
So we give our full support to the direction indicated in paragraph 40, but not to the one indicated in paragraph 34.
It should be ECU 750 million, of course.
Flaws which are actually quite common throughout regional and social support, on account of the European Union.
The figures are not, in my opinion at this point in time the most important thing.
Of course I consider that an objective 1 area with approximately 50 % cofinancing was bound to present a problem.
Where the area is already structurally weak the support from the European Union must be more intensive.
Otherwise they could have made the Hennegau a better objective 2 area.
In my view it is unacceptable that certain companies leave objective 2 Areas, as happened in the Verviers area in the case of Boston Scientific, wander off into objective 1 areas, making jobs disappear en route and yet still get money for their investment elsewhere in Europe!
Mr President, when reading the excellent report one may indeed question whether the structural funds reach their objectives, or in any case whether the programmes and the funds which have been laid out have actively created new jobs, and whether structural policy contributes in an enduring way to combating unemployment.
In the Flanders region which fall under 5b payments amount to less than 3 %, and in Meetjesland less than 1 %.
But we can only come up with concrete and positive results following a global and constructive approach.
Mr President, in application of the 1993 decisions linked to the reform of the structural funds, the Commission granted Belgium certain new adaptations to the regulation, including amongst the new measures the recognition of Hainaut in objective 1.
Furthermore, the impact of the structural funds, as currently felt in Hainaut, has not sufficiently taken account of the guidelines for rural regions, whereas there are potential resources to be taken advantage of in these areas.
For example, for the programming period 1997-1999, the green light was given in mid-July 1997, whereas, for the action to be effective, the decision should have been taken in September-October 1996.
Thank you, Mr Decourrière, for this good report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only echo the praise of my colleagues in Parliament for the very analytical and clear, as well as critical and realistic report on the development problems and structural interventions in Belgium.
But I want to make it clear that solidarity also means positive discrimination and that we naturally want to attract more activities to the poorest areas in the Union and into the Member States and that we must try together to perform this balancing act.
In addition the Commission is supporting five territorial employment pacts, in Flanders, Tongeren and Vilvoorde and in Wallonia, Hainaut and West Brabant and finally the region of the capital Brussels.
As for your concerns about the reforms of the structural fund after 1999 I would simply refer you to the basic statement of the Commission in Agenda 2000.
The debate is closed.
We shall now move to the vote. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Like the rapporteur, I am delighted with the success and quality of the programmes arising from objective 3 in the context of Community structural measures in French-speaking Belgium.
However, they have still proved inadequate to achieve a genuine reduction of the disparities and unemployment in the regions most affected economically and especially in the rural regions where slow but continuous depopulation is causing deterioration in the demographic structural factors and economic development.
Mr Decourrière's report draws up a clear and precise table for the utilization of the structural funds, particularly in Hainaut.
Personally I think point 39 of the resolution is particularly important.
The Commission does not always show flexibility, it must associate itself better with the regions and communities in the establishment and implementation of the programmes.
