The Commission was not bound, by the provisions of Article 40 of the Euratom Treaty, to consult the European Parliament.
It has, however, done so.
It is quite remarkable to see that in Europe, over the last 40 years, nuclear policies have been worked out by small groups of men - scientists, politicians and industrialists - without any real public consultation before decisions were taken, in particular through the intermediary of their national representatives.
It is, therefore, a good thing that an institution like ours should have its word to say about energy policy, both in terms of Member States and at the level of the European Union as a whole.
The question of the European Union's energy independence has become a crucial one.
In my report I have asked questions about its efficiency and the risks, and I think that my report is both moderate and pragmatic.
Europe is more than 60 % dependent for its supplies.
If today or in the coming years nuclear energy was banned or suppressed we would be dependent at a rate of over 80 % and, therefore, I would say we would be in greater danger.
Finally, industrial nature hates vacuums!
By that I mean to say - although I would not put money on it - that if we put an end to European nuclear industries, the United States and Japan which, unlike you, Commissioner, would not ask us any questions, would be there to replace us, whether in Europe or another continent.
And then, to finish, before a very brief conclusion, we have also in this area a duty of solidarity, interested duty, without any cynicism, towards the countries of Eastern Europe: in particular Ukraine and Russia.
The EURATOM Treaty is 40 years old this year.
It was written and signed in 1957 and it bears all the hallmarks of the philosophy and expectations of that time which are no longer applicable.
In the past that would have shown a constant increase in nuclear power.
The liberalization of electricity directive is one big reason why there will not be investment in nuclear power in Western Europe.
Mr Soulier is wrong.
There is considerable potential in rational use of energy; if research into renewable energy had been funded at the same rate as nuclear energy has been over the last 40 years, we would be in a very different position.
Investments in the nuclear industry and research should be continued, and the same time new jobs will be created.
Member States must respect the decisions of other Member States.
The nuclear industry must always be monitored comprehensively from production to the final storage and destruction of nuclear waste.
The illustrative nuclear programme makes short-term projections which take account, harmoniously, of the new directive on the liberalization of the electricity market, and that is very important.
My group has no objection in principle to nuclear energy.
Nuclear waste is stored temporarily in all Member States and I would ask Commissioner Papoutsis when we are finally going to get a definitive solution.
That would seriously distort the market for other forms of energy.
That is why our group will vote against paragraph 18.
Mr President, to date, three nuclear indicative programmes have been published at Community level to present long-term projections.
The 1997 Indicative Programme, which we are debating today, offers a picture of the nuclear industry in the European Union, analyzes the problems posed by technological development and puts forward some suggestions in reply.
The Committee on Energy's report, presented by Mr Soulier, on the Commission communication is a balanced one.
It is based on technological development and European knowledge in nuclear matters.
The report rightly poses the question of the European Union's growing energy dependency.
It shows that nuclear energy, which on average supplies 35 % of electricity supplies in Europe and up to 75 % in France, makes a very large contribution to reducing this dependence.
At the same time, it does not ignore questions linked to the environment, safety or human health.
The Commission document falls within the context of the Directive on the liberalization of electricity and the framework of a common energy policy.
For these reasons, I am opposed to a common energy policy which would be a strait-jacket and a permanent threat to the Member States' energy choices.
I therefore propose that we encourage cooperation, and coordination of national policies in the development of research.
Mr President, let me just say to the previous speaker: our amendments are not based on ideology but quite simply on facts that can be proven.
Then you say that progress has been made in disposing of the waste from European nuclear installations.
The nuclear industry had 40 years to prove that it is clean, safe and cheap and that the waste can be disposed of safely.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am astonished by the counter-truths and gratuitous remarks contained in the report drafted by the Committee on Energy.
Several studies dating back to the early 1990s clearly show that CO2 emissions caused by electricity production and electro-nuclear energy approach 54 grams of CO2 per kilowatt/hour.
For example, gas turbines or co-generation turbines which only emit 33 grams of carbon-dioxide per kilowatt/hour of electricity - and there are even more effective systems than that.
Mr President, we need a fundamental discussion of the use of nuclear technology for supplying energy.
In the foreseeable future Sweden will abandon nuclear energy.
Not only because this is an objective report but also because it is a moderate one.
I think that when discussing this report in groups and the Committee on Energy, we finally realized that points of view will probably be less eternally opposed than it seemed a while ago.
The first is that nuclear energy has played an important - not to say decisive -role in the economic development of all European countries in the years since the Second World War, even in countries which are now abandoning or wish to abandon nuclear power.
Probably the renewable energies.
But as everyone knows, here in the European Parliament, I am in favour of the development of renewable energies.
At maximum and at best, in the long term, they will meet between 10 and 15 % of our energy needs.
Whether we want it or not, nuclear power is going to play a vital role in the years to come in our countries and especially in the rest of the world and in developing countries.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Soulier.
There are many projects currently being developed throughout the world for new power stations in Iran, Turkey, Brazil, Korea and China.
Mr President, I must congratulate André Soulier on his excellent report.
Research must indeed be pursued in order to reduce the radioactivity of waste and its elimination.
Projects such as sub-generator reactors developed in particular by Carlo Rubia deserve all of our attention and I know that the Commission is working on these.
We must do all we can to pursue the policy undertaken to reduce waste and the storage of residual waste in order to ensure and maintain our energy independence.
While safety and management at the end of the combustible cycle are reaching satisfactory levels in European Union countries, they must be improved in countries of central and eastern Europe and in the countries of the CIS.
Thirdly, paragraph 17 refers to balanced investment in research.
We need an unbalanced research policy that favours research into renewable, alternative energy sources.
It is far more important to examine alternative energy sources in these countries.
On all these points I quite definitely reject the report and will support all the amendments relating to abandoning nuclear energy.
Mr President, it is no secret that my own party, the German Social-Democratic Party, is against nuclear energy.
Let me say the following to Mr Weber: if it really were true that nuclear energy does not save on CO2 , then can he explain why about 7 tonnes of CO2 a year is produced per capita of population in France and 11 tonnes per capita in Denmark, which has no nuclear energy.
The question facing us is: do we want to hold back our knowledge, to destroy it in a sense?
Mr President, in 1985 Portugal said 'no' to nuclear power, when faced with an advanced project to build four nuclear power stations.
We now see that seven European countries have decided against nuclear power.
In principle, I agree with André Soulier that countries should be able to choose their own system, a principle which is, after all, the basis of the whole European Union project, given that the Union can decide only to support programmes based on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
I support the inclusion in the Treaty of a chapter on energy, but only in this perspective, and changing the legal base so as to depend on Article 189C which provides for co-decision with the European Parliament and majority voting in the Council of Ministers.
The sustainable energy policy supported in the Stockmann report, also supported in the Commission's Green Paper, is given backing by Portugal.
And while we can accept that in the countries of the European Union there are enough rules concerning safety and the protection of the environment, this report says nothing about third countries or countries associated with the European Union.
Commissioner, I will mention two examples which worry me a great deal.
In answer to a question of mine on the resumption of operations by unit 1 at Kozloduy, Commissioner Van den Broek said to me - I have his answer here - that 'the Commission has contacted the government of Bulgaria because unit 1 was brought into operation again without the necessary repairs having been carried out beforehand' .
After that we have to decide which energy sources can be used in the most efficient and environmentally friendly manner.
We know how combined thermo-electric power can be used and we know about the potential of renewable energy sources.
No, if we spend European money on this sector, then it can only be for two purposes: firstly, to make the remaining term of operation safe and secondly to guarantee sensible waste disposal.
Let us not offer these old radioactive dinosaurs a future.
Mr President, Austria decided against the use of nuclear energy in a referendum, and that is the strongest mandate a politician can have.
So every nuclear power station in Europe concerns us all.
The question of nuclear waste, which will produce highly dangerous radiation for thousands of years, has not been resolved at all.
Today we can only say a definite no to every new nuclear power station, every report in favour of it.
People are always looking boldly to the future, sometimes via the circuitous route of a very very terrible past.
With this report, Parliament is taking part in the dialogue developing at the Community level on the future of nuclear energy, a thing to which I attach particular significance.
I also consider necessary the invitation extended to the Council to hold a debate on the issue.
Most agreements concluded by the Community with third countries include orders that require cooperation and information exchange in the energy sector, and especially in the nuclear section.
As for Turkey, there as in all the other countries, the European Union insists that a prerequisite for the operation and funding of those reactors must be to secure the highest possible safety standards.
I should also recall that in recent years Europe's nuclear industry has achieved considerable progress in the area of reprocessing, packaging and disposal of all types of radioactive wastes.
The experience gained by the Community's industry in the production of MOX fuels gives it a technological lead unsurpassed anywhere else in the world.
The application of this technical knowledge to produce fuels from fissionable raw materials of military origin in Russia and the United States of America is a significant contribution by the European industry to disarmament, and I would say, towards efforts for world peace.
The European Parliament's report is an important indication of the direction in which that debate should develop.
And let me also say that the criticism levelled at the European Commission for attributing particular weight to nuclear energy is unjustified.
Along those lines, the Community plan of action has helped to enable such progress and I would say that we all ought to agree that since the nuclear industry is to continue its operations and since nobody can claim that it ought to cease its activities, it should promote those methods aiming to improve the processing, packaging and disposal, I would say, of radioactive wastes.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Papoutsis, I believe that this discussion of the Green Paper for a Community Strategy for renewable energy sources takes us into a key phase of European energy policy.
The European Parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of renewable sources of energy for the Community's energy policy, most recently in July 1996 in its resolution on a Community action plan for renewable energy sources in Mr Mombaur's report, and in the resolution of 14 November 1996 on the Commission White Paper on a European energy policy.
So I very much welcome the fact that the Commission has recognised this need and incorporated Parliament's proposals in the Green Paper on a Community strategy.
In this Green Paper the Commission is presenting a really god analysis of the situation, although I must say I would have wished to see the basic guidelines of a strategy ensuring the real and greater market penetration of renewable energy sources to be defined more clearly.
At present only about 6 % of energy consumption in the European Union is supplied by renewables.
That is an increase of about 1 % since 1990.
Some Member States supply nearly 30 % of their energy demand from renewables, others less than 1 %, although the potential is quite comparable.
If in this report we now set an objective of covering at least 15 % of energy consumption from renewables by the year 2010, that is still far less than would be technically possible.
Nor is it enough just to set this objective for the European Union as a whole.
No, it is also and particularly necessary to seize this enormous opportunity to gear European energy policy towards environmental protection, security of supplies and sustainability, on the basis of a coordinated industrial policy.
Commissioner, let me once again congratulate you as the responsible Commissioner on taking a real step forwards with this Green Paper.
If renewable energy sources really are to be given a chance to penetrate the market, we need new legal, financial and accompanying measures at European, national and regional level.
This kind of programme can help create an internal market for renewable energy sources in the European Union and therefore also open up major export opportunities.
But, first of all, no prince will come to wake us up and secondly, this late awakening could be a very sobering one.
I know this kind of Community strategy will cost money.
That is why we ask that on top of the ECU 225 million currently allocated to nuclear fusion, the same amount be allocated to renewable energy resources.
Much needs to be done in relation to the structural funds, to the other programmes, to establishing an active information policy, and we really must tackle these questions seriously, for our children, our grandchildren will blame us if we do not manage to bring about a real change in our energy policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's Green Paper on renewable sources of energy is an ambitious project and forms a good basis for developing a strategy in this energy sector.
Let me congratulate the rapporteur warmly on her report.
As an inexhaustible source of energy, biomass also ensures security of supplies, i.e., a certain independence from third countries.
If we are to make the best use of this energy in future, we not only need to make the necessary arable land available under the CAP and forestry policy in the Member States, but also to increase the contribution of biomass to the EU's primary energy mix to at least 10 % by the year 2010 and at least 20 % by the year 2025.
I also believe that in future the Member States must coordinate their programmes more closely, especially in relation to district heating systems.
Commissioner, the analysis in the Green Paper is excellent.
The European Commission now has to decide whether its analysis is merely an alibi or whether it will draw the appropriate conclusions from it.
I believe one thing is most important, and we must realise that: on the basis of the analysis you yourself made, the promotion of renewable energy sources is no longer just something to be achieved passively through the many energy initiatives but a political obligation to act on the part of the Commission, the Council and the individual Member States.
There is tremendous enthusiasm for all types of renewable energy.
It crosses all parties; it crosses all Member States.
I know, as the budget rapporteur for our committee, without a legal base it is very difficult.
Please let us, all together, put pressure on our Member States.
In any case, we know that renewable energy is not a panacea, but it is a very useful element for our supplies of energy demand for which grows every day, especially if we can achieve 15 % - which seems to be a reasonable objective - mentioned in the Rothe report, which we support and which we wish to enrich with a few of our amendments as is our obligation.
My group is entirely in favour of the first part of the amendment, but without doubt - even internal doubt - it is also in favour of the second.
Personally, I am going to vote in favour of the second part because I believe that not only do we lack an energy chapter - for which the Commissioner is now working so much, and I myself must recall that I drafted a report which went in that direction some years ago - because otherwise we shall have to introduce the theme of renewable energies into the Community legal framework.
My group welcomes the Green Paper although this Commission initiative took a long time coming despite repeated requests from Parliament.
Mr President, the Liberal Group has tabled three amendments, two of which concern the promotion of energy from biomass.
My final point, Mr President, is that the European Union should promote renewable energy projects.
The Liberal Group cannot agree to projects receiving more than 50 % finance from the Union.
Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, you said to the press a few days ago that renewable energy sources are as valuable as sitting on a goldmine.
Your analysis in the Green Paper is quite correct.
The Commission regrets, I admit, that very little money is spent on renewable energy sources under PHARE and TACIS and most of the money is spent on other energy forms, and in a quite extravagant manner.
If we want to achieve what the Commission says in its analysis, if we finally want to be credible and secure our future markets on this earth - and we are talking about future markets, that is what those who just count the money in hand should remember - this is what our energy policy should look like: an ambitious and binding commitment in regard to the proportion of renewable energy sources for each Member State for the years 2000 to 2010.
Here we could achieve 35 %.
We must ensure, and this is most important, that the internal energy market does not act in a sense as an obstacle to renewable energy sources, as will now become apparent, and we must coordinate all the EU aids to ensure that no more money is spent on measures that increase rather than reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
All these points are important and I can only hope that we will move from the lyrical words of the Green Paper to facts in the White Paper.
Then you will have my full support!
I believe that the 15 % target is too modest, and that the European Union should set itself a much more ambitious objective.
The target of 12 % for renewable energy by 2010 is better than nothing, but why not aim for the European Parliament's own recommendation of 15 %?
A better level of energy utilization would provide the same environmental improvements as greater use of renewable energy sources, and should therefore be presented as just as important a part of the EU's renewable energy strategy.
Finally, I should like to express my satisfaction with the amendments which have been tabled, which clearly tighten up the Commission's proposal.
Let me say at this point, to rescue the reputation of the European Union which has often been criticized during this debate, that in recent years we were able to finance a whole range of projects because we increased the appropriations for renewable energy sources, thanks mainly to the European Parliament's efforts during the budgetary procedure.
For instance, I hope that the funding for our major programmes, such as the Mediterranean programme, or the support for Eastern and Central Europe, for the former Soviet Union, for Asia, Africa and Latin America, will be concentrated more on renewable energy sources.
For instance, a large number of appropriations, accounting for many millions of ECU, were not fully utilized in the Regional Fund because the complementary resources were not available, which is because the Member States in question did not produce either the public or the private resources.
Renewable energies must be promoted by detailed measures in order to disseminate European technology throughout the world - we should stress this - and to restore the health of the climate.
However, let us have no illusions, this is not up to us but to the Member States.
It is responsible neither for this nor for nuclear energy!
I have not read a single sensible document by the Commission, by a government or by a scientific institution on this subject and I think it is simply not enough to promote 100 000 roofs programmes here.
We need a clear strategy for the 21st century aimed at significantly increasing the share of renewable energy sources in our overall energy policy.
Agriculture, which has been going through a very difficult period, has the potential through biomass to contribute positively to rebalancing the renewable energy deficit within the European Union.
Despite considerable advantages in using renewable energy sources, consumption remains at below 6 % in the Union.
This must change, and I hope that our Member State governments are listening seriously to this debate.
At least ECU 225m are currently being spend in the EU on nuclear research.
Mr President, this was a very long confused report with 178 amendments in committee.
The Socialist Group has felt it necessary to table additional amendments.
Rule 115 allows the President to consult the House.
Mr President, I think your proposal is a very sensible one.
Now, of course, this committee has no proposal on the individual blocks, which has led to a situation where we are confronted with this procedure in plenary.
Mr President, I rise to speak in favour of your proposal on the block voting.
Mr President, I just wish to speak against any suggestion to refer this report back to the committee.
I shall therefore withdraw from any vote in connection with the debate on this report.
I read out the list of the amendments we are voting on and that is how we always vote in this House.
You know I normally agree with you in this Chamber, but you answered the speaker before me that this was the normal way we did our voting.
If people wanted to put the amendments together within the block to have a look at them they were entitled to do so.
In one go we have named four regions in different countries together with one recognized country.
We cannot refer to Macedonia or, if you like, Fyrom, in the same breath as Kosovo and Vojvodina.
Mr Johannes Swoboda agreed with me.
Macedonia was simply swapped with Fyrom.
But Fyrom should not have been mentioned in this context at all.
I am afraid that the House has voted and the House is always wise once it has voted.
Mr President, on a point of order.
Following on from the last speaker, I think you will agree, Mr President, that the way we took the last five reports after the Titley report was the way we normally vote in this Chamber.
We could not support the report at the vote.
Crampton report (A4-149/97) The question of international fisheries agreements reached by the European Union is a controversial one.
The Crampton report rightly reminds them that extending the fishery zones to 200 miles, effectively bringing 95 % of fish stocks within the coastal states' jurisdiction, made it inevitable for the Community to negotiate agreements with the countries concerned in order to ensure the survival of deep-sea fleets, maintain the European share of fishing in worldwide terms and, therefore, its contribution to our food security.
This agreement policy is backed by European shipowners which finance it to the tune of 50 %, a balance which ought to be maintained.
Others feel, in the framework of these agreements, that European fisheries compete with local fisheries.
In the first category, we should generalise the second generation agreements, and we should place more emphasis on agreements with ACP countries with abundant high-quality resources, countries which should remain our natural partners, especially those which agree to dedicate an important share of resources which they acquire through these agreements to the development of the local fishery sector - for example Senegal which has decided to retain a 50 % rate.
Since the Crampton report has set most of these objectives, our group voted in favour of it despite some of the lacks and difficulties inherent in the search for a consensus starting out from widely-divergent positions within the Committee on Fisheries.
There is no reason for the EU to develop a common defence policy or a common defence force.
So there is no reason for the EU to develop a common defence industry as this report proposes.
The Titley report with its proposal for a common weapons market is an element in such a policy.
All neutral countries maintain armies and some of the neutral countries are also amongst the major arms producers and exporters in the world.
The report takes a strictly economistic approach to the question of armaments policies, as if they were economic goods whose profitability could be appreciated in the same way as all others.
Yet, whereas each Member State must, of course, look for the best value for money, it must first of all measure the value of armaments in terms of whether they are appropriate for the specific needs of its defence in order to preserve its national independence as well as it can.
We all agree that we need to develop common armaments programmes in order to extend series and reduce the cost of new arms.
To try and impose in this sector a rigid Community framework corporation, without taking into account the desires or the real needs of different nations, would be completely artificial and would only lead to disastrous results.
The American market is already dominated by the American defence industry and leaves little space for European products.
The concept of the 'Combined Joint Task Forces' , set up last year at the North Atlantic Council in Berlin, clearly demonstrates that it is not necessary to set up a completely separate military industry outside NATO.
That is why we voted against the report.
We also support the Commission's proposals to combat the improper use of Article 223 along with standardising and supporting research and technological development.
The European defence industry is dominated by a number of big countries.
Cohn-Bendit report (A4-127/97) The development of regional cooperation in the Balkans, and particularly with the countries of former Yugoslavia, is a prime means to consolidate peace and security, mutual respect, harmonious coexistence, cultural and economic development, and cooperation between the peoples and countries in the area.
The positions adopted by the European Union so far, and its policies, contributed decisively to the dissolution of former Yugoslavia, the outbreak of war and the preservation of the present abnormal situation determined by the protection of foreign troops not only in Bosnia, but all over the Balkan area, either in the form of multi-national forces as in the case of Albania, or in the form of military bases and facilities.
We consider, however, that the European Union's strategy should cover not only the areas previously involved in war, but all the countries in south-east Europe, in other words Albania and FYROM as well, owing to the similarity of their problems and the particular importance for stability in the region of efforts towards regional cooperation.
The introduction of a general rule on the use of the qualified majority vote for the implementation of community measures without allowing the Member States to retain the right of veto on issues of vital security interests contravenes Swedish policy in this sphere.
So we cannot vote for this report.
We decided to vote in favour because, at least, it proposed that the Commission and the Council should resort to the decision of the 'Arbitration Committee' of the WTO 'condemning' the current and very tricky system of European banana trade.
For two years the new authorities in Kigali repeated, to deaf ears, that the refugee camps in Eastern Zaire were a threat to the security of their state and a time-bomb for the whole of Central Africa.
Because we entrusted our common diplomacy to two Member States, France and Belgium, the Union was committed to the point of blindness to supporting Mobutu - who was held up as a guarantor of stability and territorial integrity in Zaire.
The case of Zaire reveals the complete and utter failure of European diplomacy which has been conspicuous by its absence in this crisis and its probable settlement.
This painful affair calls for a far-reaching review of our diplomacy and our development policy.
Soulier report (A4-131/97) For the first time, the Commission has submitted to the European Parliament this indicative programme on the nuclear industry and we can only welcome this consultation.
Therefore, it is not a question of knowing whether the proportion of energy produced by nuclear reactors should increase or decrease.
The rapporteur is right to concentrate his thoughts on the management of nuclear energy.
They call for the implementation of increased safety measures in the operation of power stations and, in particular, an agreement on the management of nuclear waste and the fight against their uncontrolled transport within the European Union.
Finally, and since inevitably the subject tackled does concern the rights or wrongs of nuclear energy, I wish to lend my support to the common principles in favour of nuclear power: national authorities should decide whether or not to use nuclear power, this choice should be respected by the Union as a whole, high levels of security should be guaranteed, Member States take co-responsibility with those running nuclear installations towards European citizens when it comes to nuclear safety.
Here we have to accept that 30 % of European energy is produced by nuclear means - we must therefore take any measure necessary to guarantee the future of European citizens and their safety.
A few years afterwards our great neighbour, France, whose nuclear options are well known to everyone, decided to build a huge nuclear power station at Cattenom, on the border with Luxembourg and Germany, without asking anyone for their opinion.
I am, therefore, against nuclear power practised in this way without any nuance.
But I also go along with the attitude of my group on the need for everything to be done, in face of the dangers of nuclear power, to introduce maximum safety and therefore profoundly amend the Euratom Treaty - the relic of a time when everyone was full of admiration for nuclear power - in order to guarantee safety and control every aspect of the nuclear power industry.
Instead, Euratom should be revised to form a treaty for the abolition of nuclear power and the promotion of renewable energy sources.
The Centre Party wishes to see nuclear power abolished and has campaigned for this in Sweden for 25 years.
During the Spring of 1997 the Swedish Government and the Centre Party together with others agreed to commence the abolition of nuclear power by taking one reactor at Barsebäck out of commission before the election in 1998.
There is no reason for the EU to support this particular energy source.
The report does include positive proposals for increased nuclear safety.
This is of course good but can never justify nuclear power as an energy source.
On the other hand, I must welcome the decision to convey the European Commission's communication to the European Parliament on the fourth indicative programme on nuclear industries in the European Union, following those published in 1966, 1972 and 1984, pursuant to Article 40 of the Euratom Treaty.
It takes into account nuclear industries as a whole, and raises the problems linked to each stage in the cycle of nuclear fuel, from its extraction to its final storage or elimination.
The political impetus given to this resolution seems to me to be particularly important.
Mr President, today and the rest of this week the subject of the Helms-Burton Act has been discussed in various contexts, in particular in the framework of questions to the Council and the Commission.
And I think that, at this moment, both the Council and the Commission know the opinion of the members of this Parliament in this respect.
However, today we are going to summarize this subject, to some extent, in a motion for a common resolution which has the support of all political groups and, without entering into the justice or injustice of the measures adopted against the Republic of Cuba, I think that, at this moment, what concerns us most of all is the Commission's attitude with respect to the exercise of its negotiating capacity.
If the European Union was intelligent, if the institutions of the Council and the Commission were intelligent, then I would say that, for international negotiations, it would be very convenient for the Commission to be able to say that, on certain questions, it is the European Parliament which is able to have the last word.
At this moment, we believe that the Commission, by refusing to appeal, may have violated Community rules and we are referring here to the decision-taking procedure of Article 113, Article 228 (3)1 and 2, and Article 235 of the Treaty on European Union.
Fundamentally, what we in all of the political groups are asking, at the moment, is that the Commission should again set out its arguments against United States' policies for the extraterritorial application of US law affecting Europeans and demand that the Helms-Burton Act and the d'Amato-Kennedy Act should not stand in the way of Community decisions.
What I believe is that the Commission's decision, in the case of the Helms-Burton Act, to desist - in violation of Community law, without consulting the Community's parliamentary institution - has been an act of defeatism and one which will weaken its negotiating capacity in the international field.
Mr President, my group of course welcomes the fact that the United States and the European Union have reached an agreement which could lead to a change in the Helms-Burton Act.
I should like to point out to the Commissioner that the European Parliament ought to have been consulted on this matter, and that did not happen.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are two points I should like to raise briefly on this subject.
The European Union's view, as has incidentally been reasserted in declarations by the Council and by its representative in this House, is that extraterritorial legislation is unacceptable in law and in principle.
And this was on the basis of a law that preceded the Helms-Burton Act, the law on trading with the enemy.
Mr President, what Sir Leon Brittan said about the Helms-Burton compromise in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights really is breath-taking!
The EU has suspended the WTO proceedings because it was afraid of winning.
They hold the bank, they were good at bluffing and Sir Leon Brittan has dropped out of the game with a royal flush in his hand.
I do not know how what position we would have taken had Sir Leon Brittan consulted us beforehand and explained the situation; we might even have agreed.
But on a question such as the Helms-Burton Act, where the European Parliament established the main points while the Council and Commission were still hesitating about whether to take strong action, one cannot begin by embracing Parliament and working closely together but then take a decision that we only learn from the newspapers and say afterwards that it was the only way!
Congress made fun of Europe.
Hence my request to the Commission: we want to continue working with you on a basis of trust.
Similarly, I regret the absence of Sir Leon Brittan.
The truth is that the Cuban regime is an anachronism in the Ibero-American group of nations and in the world.
Democracy, freedom and the respect of human rights are systematically ignored and violated in Cuba.
Secondly, because it establishes a principle of extraterritoriality which violates the most lax conscience of any sovereign state - given that the Member States of the European Union are sovereign states.
The third reason why this agreement does not satisfy us is because, after 30 years of policies of this type, we have not made one jot of progress in the promotion of freedom, democracy and the respect of human rights, as the European Parliament demands in the case of Cuba.
Mr President, will you please accept apologies on behalf of Sir Leon who would have liked to be present here himself this afternoon to answer questions?
In exchange for our promise to discuss the problem of confiscated property we received the commitment and assurance from the United States that Title 3 of the Helms-Burton Act would remain suspended and that Title 4 of the same act would be amended; you know that Title 3 deals with the right of former owners of confiscated property in Cuba to institute a case in the United States against firms or individuals who have invested in these properties or who have received such properties, and that Title 4 relates to the denial of access to the United States of foreigners who deal in confiscated property in Cuba.
In addition the European Parliament was properly involved in establishing the Community anti-boycott regulation which was an important instrument in exerting pressure on the United States.
I would also add that neither the American Congress nor the European Parliament is being required to ratify this agreement because it is a political document and not a formal international agreement.
The Commission has negotiated intensively and adopted a regulation which it considers favourable to the European Union.
And if the US had boycotted the panel it would have meant that the WTO procedure for settling disputes would have become involved in an extremely serious and controversial situation where the United States support for the whole multilateral system could have been seriously undermined.
The most important point, however, was that suspending the panel offered the opportunity to continue to exert pressure on the United States' policy.
In actual fact the European Union has retained all its rights in the WTO in case measures are taken against firms or persons from the European Union.
Although the D'Amato Act as such does not come within the ambit of the WTO panel, the US undertook to work towards realising the aims to meet the provisions of the act to grant EU Member States multilateral exemption in relation to Iran and individual exemption to firms in relation to Libya.
Then we retained all our rights to convene the panel again at the point where it left off in the case that measure were to be taken against firms or persons from the EU under Title 3 or 4 of the Helms-Burton or if exemptions under d'Amato were not extended or were withdrawn.
In exchange we have only suspended the panel, thereby agreeing to develop rules for investments in confiscated property and we continue to use the WTO panel as a threat and therefore a means of pressure on the US.
We shall keep Parliament regularly informed on progress in these negotiations; our approach also offers the opportunity of a more permanent solution to the general problem of US unilateral extra-territorial measures.
Two Members have asked to speak, and although we have no time, I will give them 20 seconds each if they so wish.
Mr President, I have followed very carefully the explanations given to us by Mr van den Broek, whom I must thank right away.
Mr President, Commissioner, you described the basis of the agreement.
The joint debate is closed.
In fact we are facing the ruins of a critical dialogue, which I would not totally condemn from the outset or even after the event, but which was either not critical enough or was not enough of a dialogue.
I am very glad, and Mr Marin said the same this week, that at least we now have solidarity between all the EU states, that we have not reverted to the system of individual ambassadors, for that is something the European Union cannot countenance.
In that sense, Commissioner, I hope that the Commission and the Council will do all they can and all that is necessary to bring about change in Iran, in the sense of democracy and broadly based social and economic improvement.
We must formulate a common policy of dialogue with the pro-democracy forces in Iran.
Mr President, I agree on the whole with what Mr Swoboda has just said.
The European Union reacted positively in recalling its ambassadors.
But I have a question, perhaps, for Mr van den Broek.
Therefore, it would be interesting to know what the Commission really intends to do to develop this new policy.
I believe that in order for us to have an even clearer picture of the situation in that country, the Council and the Commission should engage in a dialogue with those forces also.
If nothing else, the European Union owes it to these people to institute an immediate and fundamental political change in its dealings with Iran.
Mr President, first let me draw a distinction of principle in relation to our political decisionmaking: on the one hand we are talking about the conduct of the Iranian head of state in terms of international law and on the other about the measures we want to take to help the victims and sufferers of the earthquake in northeastern Iran.
We want to extend our sympathy to these people and their families and express our solidarity and I hope the emergency aid will be provided as soon as possible under the ECHO programme.
But that must not prevent us from condemning the state terrorism in Iran in our political debates and on a daily basis and from taking the appropriate measures here too.
At the same time, however, I think we agree that the problem we call Iran today cannot be addressed simply by condemning the actions and omissions of the regime.
However, this does not mean that the Council in particular - because the Commission is both present and working on the matter, but the Council, which is absent from all these debates because they are supposedly unimportant - is not obliged to develop a new political concept concerning how the European Union should address Iran.
In Iran, there are forces which are both democratic and understand international relations.
Mr President, Iran is facing major problems in its financial and economic policy and in human rights, which is in fact a regional problem.
The question is what kind of relations the Union wants with a country which is now known to have its political and religious leaders maintaining a secret council which is instructed to liquidate political opponents elsewhere in the world and which is guilty of serious breach of human rights in its own country.
It must be clear that there can be no question of a dialogue with that country until such time as Iran is prepared to stop terrorist activities, change its attitude to the peace process and recognise Israel's right to existence.
Mr President, first of all I think that all Member States must demonstrate solidarity in the case of the diplomatic crisis with Iran.
Mr President, may I begin with the humanitarian aspect which must never be made dependent on the political situation in any country.
I hope that at least the Iranian authorities will get the message that as far as humanitarian issues are concerned the European Union is always on the side of the victims.
In 1990 - and I remember I myself was involved with the troika in Teheran, if I am not mistaken - Iran requested the European Union once more to negotiate on a trade and cooperation agreement.
That request was restated on many occasions and was the repeated subject of talks until two or three years ago when we moved on to the critical dialogue.
This kind of contractual relationship with Iran never came about, as a result of the enormous political impasse in our relationships which involve the accusations made today in the House about Iran's attitude to the Middles East process, state terrorism, nuclear objectives and their policy on human rights.
But after the Mykonos ruling which showed quite clearly that right up to the highest level of government was accused of being involved in state terrorism - and I refer you to the Mykonos ruling - a clear political signal was needed, and this led to the recall of ambassadors and at a later stage to the refusal to send back ambassadors after Iran had announced its intention to delay further the return of the German and Danish ambassadors.
The critical dialogue has been suspended, ministerial visits - in both directions - have been discontinued; a number of other measures have been announced, but we cannot close our eyes to the fact that in Iran we have a regional power which determines to a large extent the stability in the region and which also borders on a neighbouring country where international contacts have also been frozen as a result of Security Council resolutions and the like.
I would like to ask you, Commissioner, to transmit this message as being the consensus of this House.
You have said most of what there is to say on the matter.
We must certainly develop a more comprehensive policy towards Iran.
The joint debate is closed.
Mr President, the grave situation in Sudan provides us with an opportunity to emphasize one of the fundamental criteria by which the European Union's relations with all third countries must be governed - there must be an internal system that conforms to the principles of democracy, not in a merely formal sense but also, and more importantly, in substance.
From this we derive the three criteria emphasized in paragraph 1 of the present motion for a resolution: first, separation between Church and State; secondly, respect for the principle of self-determination of peoples; and thirdly, the democratization of Sudanese society.
Mr President, there is no certainty at all that politics and international relations are based on morality.
I hope that the European Parliament is going to vote unanimously for the resolution before it, and I wish to draw your attention towards an amendment tabled by our colleague, Bernard Kouchner, which is asking for a very useful diplomatic initiative between the European Union and the Organisation of African Unity in order to bring an end, by mediation, to the Sudanese civil war.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe there is serious cause for concern in the increase in the number of war zones in Sudan.
In my view, the Council must put pressure on the government in Khartoum to open an immediate dialogue with the combined opposition represented by the National Democratic Alliance, to accept the IGAD peace plan and to comply with international law by applying the United Nations Security Council's Resolution 1070.
We regret the fact that the Sudanese government is refusing to allow humanitarian organizations to enter the war zones and support the civilian population, which needs a regular supply of humanitarian aid.
We also regret the Sudanese government's decision to block Operation Lifeline Sudan again and thus prevent humanitarian organizations from assisting those in need in this area too.
Lastly, we are angered by the provocative stance of the Sudanese government vis à vis the repeated warnings by the international community, and in particular Security Council Resolution 1070 of 16 August 1996.
But this is because the so-called opposition in the country has united, that it has managed to bring the disparate ethnic groups that are against the Khartoum regime under one hat, so to speak.
Madam President, over the last few years we have actually seen some very real beacons of hope in Africa.
This fundamentalist barbaric regime not only subjects its own citizens to terror, abuse and oppression but exports terrorism to North Africa and the Middle East.
We need to condemn the appalling human rights record of this regime, in particular, in regard to the civilian population and the women and children in Sudan.
We need to express support for the democratic opposition which is working very hard both within and outside Sudan.
There is a window of opportunity there and I very much hope the Council and Commission will use this opportunity to try and do something to alleviate the terrible suffering which is taking place in Sudan.
Madam President, Alleanza Nazionale supports the motion for a resolution condemning Sudan, but points out that one fundamental aspect of the civil war in that country has not been considered in this motion - the fact that the clash between north and south involves issues of religious and racial hatred.
Away back in 1990 the Commission informed the government of Sudan that the situation was not acceptable for starting productive talks under Lomé IV on the programming of finance earmarked for Sudan.
I can tell you that since 1994 some ECU 61 million in humanitarian aid has been given by our humanitarian office ECHO, in addition to which another 35 million has gone on direct food aid.
The human rights situation, as I said, remains highly unsatisfactory, really bad.
The United Nations Security Council passed a unanimous resolution in January of last year condemning Sudan for its aid to international terrorism and demanding the extradition of Islamic fundamentalists being sought in connection with the attempted murder of President Mubarak of Egypt.
That was in June 1995.
And since Sudan did not meet the conditions of the resolution sanctions were put into place on 10 May 1996, now one year ago, which the Security Council announced in Resolution 1054 and which called for a reduction of the staff in Sudanese embassies throughout the whole world.
Following that the Security Council adopted a resolution last August calling on Sudan Airways, after the expiry of a period of 90 days, to be grounded by means of an international embargo if Sudan had not implemented the earlier Security Council resolutions.
The Security Council however decided to await the report of the advisor from the United Nations humanitarian affairs department who was sent to Sudan before the resolution was presented for implementation; his mission was to investigate the consequences of such a sanction on Sudan Airways, particularly its effect on humanitarian aid.
Mr President, you realise that various attempts have been undertaken, in IGAT as elsewhere, to try to get the peace talks back on to the rails.
Indonesia: Madam President, with its 200 million inhabitants, Indonesia is the biggest Muslim country in the world and it plays a leading role in South-East Asia.
Controlled by a despot for more than thirty years now, the Indonesian regime claims to be a democracy but in reality we must doubt this.
The Indonesian government must understand that democratic elections and credible institutions are vital for guaranteeing the respect of human rights and if its international relations are to be improved.
Madam President, Indonesia is an area of the world that has been criticized many times in this Parliament, particularly because of East Timor.
The conditions in the prisons have to be addressed; also access of prisoners to basic human rights, access of NGOs to Indonesia, freedom of the press, freedom of movement of people, and the right of people to live in a society where they are not persecuted by their own government.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, with sad regularity the European Parliament is obliged to condemn the serious violations of human rights practised by the Indonesian authorities on its own territory and in the illegally occupied territory of East Timor.
However, students and other peaceful opponents to the Jakarta government continue to be held arbitrarily in prison for demonstrating against the holding of elections in such conditions, and violent repression has continued against the people of East Timor.
It is time for the European Union and its Member States to adopt coherent positions in its relationship with Indonesia.
In particular we must make sure that the Union's trade relations with ASEAN countries should be subjected to the respect of human rights and that Member States stop giving military assistance and selling weapons to Indonesia.
Madam President, although the Indonesian General Election is not due to take place until 29 May, which is a week today, the result is not in doubt.
For the sixth time since President Suharto seized power in 1965 the government-backed Golkar party will win and next year Parliament with other nominees will almost certainly reappoint President Suharto for a seventh five-year term.
The fact that 75 of the 500 members of parliament are appointed by the army shows some of the limits on democracy.
Having seen off the opposition, the government is able to implement policies to crush all dissent, whether in East Timor where a third of the population have died since the unlawful invasion of 1975 or elsewhere.
This resolution signals the desire of this Parliament to step up the pressure on the Indonesian authorities and we hope very much that the Council and the Commission will respond to our appeal.
Madam President, Indonesia is a big country with many cultures and a large population of nearly 200 million people, a growing economy and freedom of religion despite the fact that it is a Muslim country.
It is right for us here in this House to draw attention to it.
There are good sides to Indonesia but it also has its pathetic sides and it is up to us, especially when considering human rights and the lack of democracy, to put our finger on this very sore spot.
That is what we are doing with this resolution and our group will vote in favour of it.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has already, on many occasions, condemned the violation of human rights in Indonesia and, in particular, the situation in East Timor, and yet Indonesia has failed to alter its conduct, in clear disregard for the resolutions passed by the United Nations or the feelings of the international community.
The award of the Nobel Peace Prize to Bishop Ximenes Belo and Mr Ramos Horta sent out another alarm signal over violations of human rights in that territory.
In approving this motion for a resolution, the European Parliament can lend dignity to the values which are part and parcel of our cultural and political heritage.
Vietnam: Madam President, the Republic of Vietnam is in the process of transition, as we all know.
This is the only way to ensure that the fulfilment of basic human rights becomes an indispensable aspect of our cooperation, not only with the Republic of Vietnam but with all the countries of the region.
I am very pleased that the Commission has raised the human rights question with the Vietnamese authorities and I should like an assurance today from Commissioner Van den Broek that, on behalf of the Commission, he will maintain this approach.
Madam President, eager for foreign investment Vietnam has signed a cooperation agreement with Europe and did so last year.
Vietnam must honour the commitments it undertook and the Council and the Commission are called upon to remind it that the defence of human rights is a priority in our relations as well as in the context of the review of the agreements between the European Union and ASEAN.
Madam President, the present situation of children in central and eastern Europe demands our urgent attention.
The changes in central and eastern Europe have not brought any great improvement to the dreadful conditions in which some children had lived under the communist system.
The UNICEF report indicates that in many cases the situation has even got worse.
There are statistics in the report on a rise in crime, alcohol addiction and suicides among young people.
In a word, everything must be done to improve the fate of children in central and eastern Europe.
Let us never forget that they are the future of Europe, not only of their Europe but of our Europe.
I hope that the Commission and other responsible bodies in Europe will undertake something on the basis of this present resolution and that we in this House will continue to follow developments concerning children in central and eastern Europe.
Isik Yurtça: Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of respect for human rights, respect for freedom of the Press and the free movement of ideas in Turkey, has now become pressing and dramatic.
According to information from the Union of European Journalists, and from the Turkish Union of Journalists, 78 of their colleagues are still held in Turkish prisons while new arrests take place every day, with confiscations of newspapers, closure of television and radio stations, assaults on journalists, and police raids and arson attacks against newspaper offices.
For his articles in that paper he was sentenced to imprisonment for 14 years and 10 months.
He has already spent 28 months in prison under very unpleasant conditions, with serious consequences for his physical and mental health.
His colleagues describe him as a journalist with integrity, who never exploited his profession for personal gain.
In 1996, with three other colleagues, he was proclaimed 'Journalist of the Year' .
The Union of European Journalists declared 3 May 1997 as a day of action for his release.
Granted its sensitivity towards issues related to human rights and democratic liberties, the European Parliament must today call for the immediate release of Isik Yurçu and all imprisoned Turkish journalists.
Madam President, today we are speaking once again of Turkey and, alas, once again, in order to condemn its attitude towards individual freedoms, the freedom of expression and in particular freedom of the press.
That vote meant, for us, not only encouraging the free circulation of products but also, something to which we are particularly attached, the respect of human rights.
The money is going to a country where the people are eating grass, are starving, to a country that has refused to sign the ban on chemical weapons, which is ruled by a military dictatorship, which has no infrastructure, no industry at all.
And we spend ECU 75 million on that!
We have a reserve of ECU 10 million.
But on behalf of my group I would say that we should not confuse the issues here, for I believe that the question of industrial policy, of establishing industrial plant, including the construction of a nuclear power station, belongs under a different heading.
What I miss in this urgency is a reference to the responsibility of the North Korean government.
We believe that good government is always a factor of development, which we must take into account, given that we also call for democratization and suchlike in other contexts.
Madam President, three very brief points.
But I think we should also insist on the visibility of the European Union in this humanitarian action.
Finally, we must turn towards a central actor in this part of the world.
I think that the Commission and the Council should put pressure on China, which is able to exert considerable influence on the North Korean regime, to unblock the situation so that finally this country, which is the most backward communist country in the world, should undertake reforms.
Madam President, the motion for a resolution on the famine in North Korea tabled by the Green Group of the European Parliament is a bizarre document.
Bizarre because the only accurate thing in it is the description of the famine which is hitting about half of the nearly 23 million people there.
Not one single word either on the two hundred thousand political prisoners who are literally rotting at this very moment in North Korea.
Not a word on the fact that the devastating floods were not the real reason for the famine but the real reasons is solely the dominant suffering caused by 52 years of stalinist dictatorship.
Not a word on the fact that the financial involvement of the United States and perhaps of Europe in building two light water reactors - financial involvement that was strongly criticised by the Greens - was aimed at replacing two old unsafe nuclear power stations that were only used in practice to provide the regime with plutonium for military purposes.
In a word, I fear that the Green Group is proving somewhat late in the day that is an uncritical defender of a monstrous regime.
I am reading the text of the motion for a resolution which does not contain the slightest criticism of a government, she does not even call it a dictatorship, but the government of North Korea which does not attract the least censure in the Greens' resolution and which in my view is at the root of what is unfortunately happening in North Korea.
Madam President, the Commission keeps referring to its social and ecological responsibilities and giving top priority to respect for human rights in its international agreements.
One example is the rugmark label, supposedly a model of social regulation in rug production.
Rugmark could be a real means of eliminating child labour, and in particular of offering the children concerned alternatives.
We must continue to protect against this kind of attitude and I think that we should give our full support to the new initiative developed by the International Labour Organisation which called for a code of behaviour for all countries to stick to basic social rules on banning child labour, forced labour, the right to association, the right to organisation and a ban on discrimination.
There are already various organisations in all our countries, third world organisations that are not sitting back waiting for social clauses to appear one fine day from the world trade organisation.
And some firms should be confronted with their responsibility for the trade they organise in our countries.
Madam President, my group was happy to be involved in tabling this motion for a resolution.
It looks as if we will be seeing more of this kind of fair trade label and that is why I would call on the Commission not merely to aid the NGOs but perhaps even to take the initiative to introduce a European regulation for this kind of label.
Madam President, Mr Van den Broek, on lobby organisations, it might be a good idea to take the resolutions passed this week by this Parliament on regulating lobby organisations as an example which could be followed in the Commission, thereby helping and protecting the Commission services as we ourselves are currently doing.
Madam President, this subject - a subject on which, of course, our group supported and endorsed the urgent motion for a resolution - is an underestimated problem, a tragic problem to which the commercial aspect of clothing and footwear alone is closely linked.
So let us say yes to social labelling, but let us also encourage the development of fair and balanced trade, extending to all other economic and social sectors.
Madam President, this motion for a resolution may not really be urgent in the technical sense.
For this reason - in other words, precisely in order to encourage the establishment of a genuine economy in the developing countries - we call on the Commission to issue an appropriate directive regarding certification of products coming from those countries, and we support the action of non-governmental organizations that are working towards this objective.
Madam President, the world-wide fight against child labour is showing its first signs of success.
The work of the Rugmark Foundation in India and Nepal, which we in the SARC delegation of the European Parliament are following with particular interest, is a successful initiative.
The world-wide ban on child labour needs to be supplemented by further practical measures to ensure that families are prepared to help support the fight against child labour.
Kenya: Madam President, this is a good time for us to debate this issue because there is a serious escalation in human rights problems in Kenya and there will be an election there in December.
There are a number of church-based groups which are under serious threat because of their work in support for justice and peace.
This was very effective in the past - in 1992, for instance, because of the threat of aid cuts the President agreed to a multiparty system - so perhaps we could add the GUE Group amendment as an addendum.
Madam President, this motion for a resolution calls on the government to take stronger action against gangs and other criminal elements.
Madam President, I would like to thank Members of the House for their contribution to what always seems to be an indictment of the widespread infringement of human rights in the world.
Indictments in an area where this European Parliament also has a reputation and the Commission will certainly continue to encourage Parliament to follow closely the situation of human rights just as the Commission itself tries to do.
In our talks with the Indonesian authorities we also stressed the need for free and fair elections.
That could be a specific move to improve the situation.
With reference to Vietnam and other countries mentioned today, the question arises as to whether more effective, perhaps economic pressures could be used to improve the situation.
Under PHARE we have the LEAN programme which since its instigation has financed about 107 projects with a budget of ECU 35 million for aid to invalids, the elderly, children, victims of Aids, minority groups and the unemployed, all groups to which Mr Oostlander drew specific attention.
Then there are other instruments more specifically aimed at the national situation, such as the child protection programme in Rumania which has been in operation since 1992, the programme for social emergency aid in Bulgaria which Parliament already debated and which offers income support to poor families and direct financial aid to some psychiatric institutions, and we are familiar with the situation in those institutions in that country.
The new PHARE guidelines, on which the Commission made a communication to the Parliament, offer us a framework to continue actions in these spheres, particularly reinforcing government services on this point and reinforcing the social security systems.
In this way the European Union naturally intends to create the conditions for a smoother integration of these countries into the European Union.
You know that we have very regular contact with Ankara on a number of matters, be they the customs union, Cyprus, bilateral relations with Greece or the Kurdish problem, and we always talk about the human rights situation; we continue to encourage new legislation, improvement of the situation especially in prisons, to put an end to torture in police stations and the like.
Madam President, over the last two years the European Commission has contributed ECU ten million to humanitarian aid to North Korea.
The results of that assessment team will enable the Commission to make the most of its strategy for humanitarian intervention in North Korea.
We are currently preparing a coordinated aid programme for both food aid and public health assistance.
For as it now stands that aid is subject to a number of both practical and administrative restrictions.
The 'Clean Clothes' campaign which is currently under way in various European countries is not strange in itself.
In the Commission communication on the link between trade system and international labour standards, as it is called, the Commission underlines the need to promote basic labour standards, such as the ban on forced labour and the abolition of child labour.
The Commission will soon - and this also answers a question put this afternoon - be submitting a draft directive laying down the implementation modalities, especially procedures for monitoring and cooperating with government authorities of the favoured countries.
On the particular initiatives on social labelling the Commission acknowledges an increase in initiatives in the above-mentioned communication and stresses the importance of the rules of the World Trade Organisation which can, however, be misused for protectionist purposes.
The Commission is seizing every opportunity in close cooperation with the Member States of the Union to make the Kenyan government realise the importance the Commission attaches to the fact that development policy and cooperation are closely linked to respect for basic human rights.
Commissioner Pinheiro took this message to the Kenyan authorities during his visit to Kenya at the beginning of this year.
The Commission, like Parliament, regrets the recent brutal action from the police against members of the opposition and human right activists.
The Commission calls on all Kenyans to strive towards peace and conciliation in their country so that the 1997 elections can be prepared and held in freedom and fairness and we do not witness a re-run of the wave of violence during the 1992 elections.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution (B4-0359/97) by Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel and others, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party, on discriminatory measures taken by China against Denmark and the Netherlands for tabling a resolution denouncing human rights violations in China during the 53rd session of the UN Human Rights Commission.
Madam President, democracy and respect for human rights are extremely important to the Liberal Group.
My group regrets the attitude of some EU Member States which prevented a motion for a resolution being tabled on behalf of the Union.
The countries that did support a resolution against China, Denmark and the Netherlands, have been punished with economic sanctions.
The Netherlands acted as President of the Union.
I saw on this morning's television that Chirac was welcomed in China as a friend.
Madam President, trade and politics are two separate matters according to China.
I urge the Commission to make this clear in its relations with China.
I think that the motion for a resolution before us today needs no words of explanation.
And there is a deeper problem: I have been given to understand that if the European Union did not press the United Nations sub-committee resolution in April, the Chinese would resume the human rights dialogue with the European Union which began on a bilateral basis in 1995.
It is after all the basic principle of the EU that both large and small nations should be able to speak freely here about tyranny and injustice, even when this involves a large and powerful country such as China.
What it did in Geneva was to comfort the policy defended by the Chinese government to prove that it is possible to develop without democracy.
This is serious, and President Chirac's trip to China today does nothing to reverse that.
Mr President, I can certainly support what most of my colleagues have said.
How else are we to show our citizens that a common foreign policy is something that really has to be fought for?
I said the other day that I would rather be a Member of Parliament than a diplomat, for last year in Geneva I saw how hard European diplomacy struggled to get precisely this human rights resolution on the agenda, which of course it has not managed this year because of its lack of unity.
So in future we really should think of the citizens and be united and then we will also achieve more in China.
Mr President, the resolution supporting Denmark and the Netherlands against China's blackmail actually tallies well with the stance of Parliament, which has constantly underlined that we cannot use two yardsticks in human rights questions.
Today Jacques Chirac is going to China and in the run-up to that visit he spoke of a global partnership with China.
Mr President, the Commission agrees with much of what has been said this afternoon on the situation as a result of the failure of the resolution in the UN human rights commission in Geneva.
Let there be no misunderstanding on the need to make China understand that there is no question of discriminating against Member States of the European Community on human rights policy.
I hope that President Chirac will use his visit to China to convey this message in a manner which is in keeping with the respect of the Chinese people, as they like to say in Peking.
But, Mr President, the European Union and its Member States must at the same time understand that the best guarantee for preventing this kind of situation and for countering this discrimination is a unity of decision-making within the European Union itself.
It is also a lack of unity that prevents us from implementing an effective human rights policy.
But to keep on year in year out, for seven or eight years at a stretch, tabling the same motion for a resolution which in many cases is not even adopted, threatens to prove counterproductive.
The debate is closed.
First of all, on behalf of the European Commission, I would like to make a commitment to you concerning the following aim: to face the great challenge of producing a White Paper on renewable energy sources and a programme of action for renewable forces, which I hope to be in a position to present to Parliament at the end of this year.
Secondly, I am especially glad to note that the rapporteur and very many of the honourable Members who spoke today agree with the European Commission that so far as the operation of the internal market is concerned, renewable sources of energy should be fully respected.
In that context, then, there are many and various ways and means that can be used to promote renewable energy sources without distorting competition.
Finally, I would like to draw attention to another important point in the report: the subject of the future legal basis for the promotion of renewable energy sources.
The proposal for a related order should in my opinion clearly stress the importance of renewable energy sources.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would once more like to thank the rapporteur warmly, as well as all Members of the European Parliament who contributed to the preparation of the draft report.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the resolution) I give the floor to Mr Falconer.
I can fully understand the way he conducted the business this morning given that the Greens had called for a roll-call vote on every paragraph and on every single amendment that was tabled.
Thank you, Mr Falconer, but I must tell you that although I am not all that good at conducting the vote, the part that I do well I learned from Mr Martin.
The Rothe report includes a large number of important ideas for the White Paper.
Common sense is not necessarily the most commonplace quality in the world.
An obvious fact: our society needs a lot of energy to meet all of its needs.
These now meet 6 % of current energy requirements in Europe.
The European Parliament should therefore support the spirit of this report as defended by our colleague.
We should encourage research on renewable energies and call on the Council to set a minimum of 15 % towards renewable energy in the total energy budget.
Let us develop energies which will ensure our security and protect the environment.
The French delegation of the EPP Group voted in favour of the Rothe report on the Commission Green Paper on renewable energy sources.
It is, therefore, regrettable that the adopted resolution should include paragraph 3 and recital C.
Building a development strategy is not tantamount to a crusade against nuclear energy which nowadays supplies 35 % of the European Union's energy needs while the Commission Green Paper considers on the basis of serious studies that the technical potential for developing renewable energies will not supply more than 15 % of our needs in the year 2020.
It is possible to be in favour of nuclear energy and renewable energy at the same time: the Soulier and Rothe reports were complementary.
It is regrettable that the European Parliament, consulted for the first time, could not have shown more maturity on these capital subjects.
The promotion of renewable energy sources is important not just from an environmental point of view but also because it will lead to the creation of numerous jobs particularly in small companies and in rural areas.
I think that the 15 percent level proposed in the report is too cautious.
A substantial investment in renewable energy sources is essential for a long term sustainable society.
We also need a draft treaty in which non-sustainable energy sources such as nuclear power and fossil fuels are replaced with bio-energy and other renewable energy sources.
The EU can contribute to this development by abolishing the Euratom Treaty and introducing a new treaty on renewable energy resources.
The report hardly mentions the large renewable energy sources in the Scandinavian Countries, for example various forms of bio-energy, the forest, woodchips, pellets, peat and so on.
But I have to mention, in passing, the importance that I attach to the Rothe report, too, given its global view and the pragmatism of the measures contained in it.
In Finland, for example, the proportion of peat in energy consumption as a whole is already 5.4 %, though the proportion of peat bogs in production is only 0.5 %.
I hope that the Commission will include peat as a renewable natural resource in the White Paper it is to prepare.
The Commission chose Article 130(3) as the legal basis, i.e., the 'industry' title of the Treaty.
Since there is not or not yet a chapter on energy in the Treaty, even though energy policy is in the common interest of us all, the legal basis must be the one that relates most closely to the subject concerned.
In Article 1 the Commission proposal lists as objectives of the decision: protecting the environment, promoting the rational and efficient use of energy resources and new and renewable energy and promoting international energy cooperation.
It defines rational utilization of natural resources, protection of the environment and the promotion of international measures to protect the environment as the objective of European policy.
Of course energy policy has effects both on industry and on the environment.
But I think one thing is clear: in the matter of cooperation to achieve agreed energy objectives we also need a cooperation procedure between the legislative institutions.
In relation to the energy policy objectives we should formulate a policy that anticipates the future.
The Commission proposal we are debating today restricts the Commission's role to information and supervisory rights and to a coordinating function.
In recent budgetary procedures the Council sought considerable cuts in energy policy sectors.
THERMIE II has been frozen for years, SAVE II was reduced to one third.
But to revert to national energy policies is quite simply wrong.
Mr President, the European Parliament has already dealt quite often in the past, as it is doing today in particular, with the question of how the European Union can assume its responsibilities in energy policy in the long term and take the appropriate measures, which are of course urgently necessary to create the framework conditions in a liberalized internal market.
Of course our objective is to reduce CO2 emissions in the EU.
It may indeed be possible to change the legal basis - I would not exclude it, but I am an engineer and not a lawyer - and that may also give Parliament more influence because there will be cooperation and we can work with the chosen legal basis.
The EPP Group will therefore reject any amendment of the legal basis and the report as a whole if this amendment is adopted by a majority.
There is no point in Parliament starting to bring in fiscal law questions again.
In any case we would then be moving towards another legal basis again, Article 130 would not apply.
We should leave things where they belong.
In the proposal before us now it looks as though nobody had considered what we discussed here this morning and what we voted on a short while ago.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that this Council decision is very timely because, if we go down the way that we are going down, I have serious doubts that there can be a common energy policy, perhaps it is very difficult because there are fifteen countries with very different energy systems - and the countries which are going to be incorporated into the Union have different ones again.
In both the Green Paper and the White Paper on Energy you spoke first of all of competitiveness, of prices, but I think it is more important to concentrate on supply security, which is beginning to be not so clear, Commissioner.
Then, of course, we should look at competitiveness, environmental protection, coordination, the possibility of having a presence in other markets.
However, it seems to me that you tend to insist on having better statistics, that we have the statistics beforehand - Eurostat statistics arrive very late because of the means we have or because countries fail to give information.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this important report.
We have heard already today how important it is to have a legal base in energy with reference to renewable energies.
This proposal is based on the three fundamental aims defined by the White Paper on energy policy, in other words to increase competitiveness, secure reliability of supply, and of course protect the environment.
Amendment No 1 concerns the legal basis of the proposal.
For those reasons, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 1.
Now, as for Amendment No 3, Article 1, I think its first part concerning the additional aim of avoiding surplus capacity is unnecessary.
The second part of Amendment 3 can be accepted in principle.
However, I would like to point out that there seems to be a small problem with that amendment because it refers in particular to initiatives taken at national level, while the beginning of the Article already covers that point with its reference to actions taken in the Member States.
I also unreservedly accept the last part of Amendment 3 under Article 1.
Indeed, I would like to tell Parliament that just yesterday afternoon, the Commission adopted a related statement and the Council on Energy will debate the subject in detail at the end of May.
The foundation of such a body, which may not be a bad idea, in my opinion merits more careful study and consequently, I am not disposed to accept Amendment No 4, at least at the present stage.
Indeed, the Commission recently submitted for discussion a new proposed directive for the taxation of all energy products, which is already a step in that direction.
Mr President, I now come to Amendment No 6, which concerns Article 3.
In my opinion, its first part is too restrictive and does not permit the necessary flexibility.
With Amendment No 7, the rapporteur proposes a substantial change to the first paragraph of the Annex.
Amendments Nos 8 and 9 concern energy prices.
In Amendment No 8, the rapporteur proposes to delete the words 'and undistorted' and to add a reference to fair competition.
The Commission holds firmly to its position favouring the principle of cost internalization, but I consider it premature to refer, as in Amendment No 9, to a standardized calculation method.
Granted that the principle of cost internalization is already mentioned in the text of the Commission's proposal, with regret I cannot accept Amendment No 9.
And I now come to the last part of Amendment No 11 concerning the incorporation into the Treaty of a chapter devoted to energy, in any case something which as you know I warmly support.
Now, as for Amendments Nos 13 to 17, the Commission cannot accept them, since they go beyond the present scope of the proposal and I am afraid that they disturb its balance.
Mr President, I think that I have answered in detail all the proposed amendments, and as you see, we can accept some of them, which I believe are the more important ones.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the background to the Commission's strategy document is that the Council of Ministers has on several occasions stated the EU's intention to strengthen co-operation with the countries and organisations in this region.
The Council has also urged the Commission to put forward concrete proposals in this sphere.
Whereas solar energy could be a solution in one region it is less viable in another, where perhaps water power or bio- energy would be more appropriate.
The European Parliament has, in several urgent resolutions, adopted a position that these large dams projects including those in India, China and Malaysia risk damaging valuable environments and contributing to the disappearance of the native people's culture and way of life.
I intend to add an oral amendment proposal during the vote tomorrow when I will remove this last phrase in Bakun, Malaysia, as I believe it is foolish to highlight a particular project in a resolution.
Instead it is important to point out that it is the large dam projects which we are criticising as there are unfortunately many large dam projects underway in Asia.
The other point concerned the fact that the EU has started to involve itself in nuclear energy in Asia.
KEDO, I have been told, should be viewed as a political project to gain an insight into nuclear energy issues in an area which was until recently closed.
The project is based on the building of two new nuclear power stations which are to be financed by the EU to the tune of 75 million ECUs.
As KEDO is concerned with energy development work, it would have been better to have invested in the introduction of renewable energy sources.
For this reason I also hope that amendment No. 7 is passed.
It includes the peaceful use of nuclear energy in respect of maximum security standards.
We were also especially satisfied by the approval of our proposal to call on the Commission to bring out a Green Paper on Energy Cooperation in Asia, extending it to the Central Asian countries, namely Kazakhstan, Kyrghyzstan, Uzbekhistan, Tazhikhistan, Turkmenistan and Mongolia.
We have just paid an official visit to some of those countries and had an opportunity to examine the importance of this Green Paper on the spot.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate Mr Holm on his report.
With your report and with what I hope will be the Council for Energy's positive attitude on 27 May concerning this statement, the Commission will be in a strong position to implement the first initiative of policy in the sector with countries in Asia.
On this visit to the ASEAN countries I will be accompanied by representatives of Europe's energy industry.
In the statement which the European Commission issued last year, it proposed the three main aims of this cooperation.
The European energy market has essentially become saturated, since for the next 15 years its development is expected to fluctuate between approximately 1 % and 2 % per year.
Analyses have been prepared for countries or groups of states, which take account of all the economic and energy indexes.
And all these data build a healthy basis for the development of our strategy on cooperation between Europe and Asia.
I would also like to point out that this strategy mainly concerns both the European Union as a whole, and its Member States.
The establishment of closer dialogue in the area of energy policy should therefore constitute a priority, and at the same time, it will have to be shown in practice to be mutually beneficial.
We also agree that increased use of new and renewable energy sources for the production of energy in agricultural regions must be a priority.
The Commission's position in this respect is firm, and our actions in the sector always strive towards the same objectives, in other words to ensure first the spread of peaceful uses for nuclear energy, and secondly substantial and great stringency in relation to restrictions and conditions for nuclear safety.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would like once more to thank the rapporteur and the speakers who addressed us today and on the Committee on Energy, during the debate on the substance of the issue, for their comments, ones which we will take seriously into account when developing our policy.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at first glance it seems superfluous to spend any time in 1997 on the analysis of figures and statistics which are five years old.
It is, however, also true that the marked increased in the volume of road transport is behind the increase in problems linked to road safety and environmental protection.
When analysing more closely the figures for the years 1991 and 1992, it can be seen that control procedures and the number of controls carried out vary considerably from one Member State to the other, that there are countries where the number of controls carried out increased whereas in other countries it diminished, or these controls were only applied to foreign drivers.
First of all, the controls carried out in various Member States of the European Union are clearly insufficient.
Secondly, controls must be stepped up and, with this in mind, the first vital measure is to provide for a marked increase in the number of control agents.
Fourthly, we must urgently avoid unfair competition between the transport sectors of the various Member States.
Fifthly, provisions regulating the driving and rest time of drivers of buses and heavy lorries should be subjected to constant surveillance in all Member States.
In the respect of rules inherent in the driving profession, the use of a new tachygraph is an urgent need.
Obviously, this measure would call for an increase in the number of controllers in order to guarantee effective checks.
Therefore, it is necessary for the European Commission and the Council of Ministers to take a clear position on questions as important as the work and driving times of professional lorry drivers.
Secondly, it should come out in favour of a harmonization of penalties for violations of the provisions governing driving and rest times.
Nobody will contradict me if I say that we must once and for all and as quickly as possible put an end to 70 hour or more working weeks, 11 hour rest days, which may be reduced three times a week to 9 hours, and which are one of the main causes - if not the main cause - of heavy goods vehicle accidents on European roads.
Mr President, this report appears to be quite technical but, in essence, it can be summed up in three words: safety, safety and safety.
I hope that this report will not only be approved but that the Commission will act on its contents.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's report, although the reasons behind it are highly topical, as we are all aware comes before this House rather late in the day - when I say 'rather late' I am talking about five or six years - and is therefore at some risk of obsolescence, in its efficacy as well as in its reference data.
The problem is widespread, most of all because of the size of the workforce - some 3 million people throughout Europe.
To arrive at a social as well as economic dimension, this workforce should be multiplied by three or four to give a global framework for the sector.
Hence the need to consider carefully the measures to be taken in the event of violations, in the hope that these can be harmonized as quickly as possible and, in particular, that this harmonization will bring a similar harmonization of penalties.
Mr President, may I first of all congratulate the former minister of transport, Mr Schlechter, on his excellent report.
The Commission promised us new proposals on driving and rest times.
Mr President, we are far from the harmonised implementation of the driving and rest times prescribed in regulation 3820/85.
Mr President, on behalf of everyone concerned about the unacceptably high level of coach and lorry accidents throughout Europe, I welcome the report by the Commission and, indeed, the work of the rapporteur.
We learn from the Commission document of poor compliance and in some cases the total lack of compliance by Member States, the widespread flouting of legislation which is the cause, as we all know, of all too many accidents.
Mr President, I too believe that the social provisions in question relate first and foremost to driving times and rest periods, and if we remember the two figures that were just cited, three million drivers and about 50 000 lives lost, we realise that this is not a minor report that could perhaps be briefly discussed on a Friday morning but a report that needs to be considered by the Committee on Transport, the Committee on Social Affairs and by all the MEPS and people who really are seriously concerned about safety on the roads of Europe and elsewhere.
We congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and hope the Commission will pay it the attention it deserves.
The Commission therefore decided to go ahead and publish the report for 1993-1994 without waiting any longer.
However, as my colleague Mr Kinnock told the Committee on Transport in March, he has already asked the Commission's services to examine ways of extending Regulation 3820/85, to include in its field of application other activities that are also relevant to the safety of the public.
It will also form part of the continuing dialogue between the Commission and the Member States to clarify the different interpretations placed by the Member States on the meaning of working time in that branch.
But that review will relate to all aspects of the regulation.
The Commission considers that this is a basic method to improve the uniform implementation of the regulation, and that it will also make it more easy for the responsible authorities in each Member State to carry out a larger number of checks.
I was almost sure that Mr Wijsenbeek had asked for the floor, but I am also almost sure that it was not for a point of order!
