Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 6 November 1997.
As far as we know at the moment, 79 people appear to have been killed, including a number of German and French citizens of the European Union.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of 6 November 1997 have been distributed.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz.
Thank you very much, Mrs Díez de Rivera.
As the rapporteur on China, I wish to associate myself with your remarks about Wei Jingsheng.
I do not disagree with what you said about the judiciary in various Member States but I would say that many football supporters across Europe get very poor treatment both by police and courts.
I note therefore that you are applying, as from 1997, a ruling of the Court of Justice of October 1997.
No, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, I am not implementing the points differently.
This system will be applied as strictly as is necessary.
On this occasion, once again, we are in a transition stage.
Mr President, I cannot understand how you can pass over the rights of an Irish person, who has been in a British prison for 12 months with no charges preferred, and yet give a hearing to UK Members who are raising the matter of four Liverpool supporters in prison in Strasbourg.
Mr Gallagher, I do not think we need return to a matter which, at the moment, is not our responsibility.
This has happened again today with this important report on the review of energy policy measures.
We are therefore prepared to defer the report to a future sitting because I realize that the situation is very critical at present, provided, as I said, that a suitable time is allocated.
Mr President, the main request is to be able to bring the report forward to a more suitable time on Tuesday or Wednesday.
Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
Mr President, I would like Mr Posselt to know that we did not hear the question in this group, because if we had I could have explained that we tried very hard to keep Question Time with the Council on the agenda.
If the climatologists are correct, then we have to reduce CO2 emissions world-wide to 10 thousand million tonnes by the year 2050.
In the EU the current figure is on average 8.4 tonnes, in Germany 11 tonnes and in Denmark 12 tonnes.
The main cause of the reduction of CO2 emissions in Germany has been the collapse of the East German industrial base; in West Germany emissions are on the increase again.
They have promised to reduce CO2 emissions by 15 % by the year 2010.
But our courage seems to be just a front - and I do not think that is just apparent.
We even read in the press that the Commission is prepared to withdraw its proposals.
The Community and its Member States have reconfirmed their negotiating position regarding the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the industrialized countries: 7.5 % reduction by the year 2005, 15 % reduction by the year 2010.
These objectives are supported by the Group of 77 and China and thus by a large majority of the parties concerned.
It should nevertheless be noted that the G77 is also asking all industrialized countries to reduce their emissions by 35 % by the year 2020.
The proposals made by the United States and Japan, shared by other parties to the convention such as Canada, Australia and New Zealand, have increased flexibility in common.
Regarding the elements of flexibility to be considered in this context, the Council of 16 October had already showed willingness to consider budgetary periods instead of base or target years, provided this does not delay action.
Furthermore, in our opinion this trade must only represent a limited percentage of emissions and must be governed by a transparent and open international system.
Equally strict safeguards would apply to the possible implementation of projects in common between protocol signatories, aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
One last factor which some parties are stressing is the need to take into account greenhouse gas sinks.
This process could be set in motion when the parties meet in Kyoto, where guidelines for such a review could be drawn up.
Finally, as regards the European "bubble' , may I remind you that the Council meeting in March decided on the division of the burden between the Member States within the objective of a proposed 15 % reduction by the year 2010.
The Council of 16 October agreed on a text which was proposed by the Community and the Member States during the last negotiations and which aims to clarify responsibilities, in case the objective is not achieved by the Community as a whole.
The convention expressly anticipates the case of organizations such as the Community, in as far as there is a formal transfer of competence from the Member States to the organization, that is the Community, regarding certain areas covered by the protocol.
The Community must assert itself, uphold its uniqueness and be proud of the guiding role it continues to have in this process.
On 4 November we had a meeting with the State Department in Washington, followed by meetings with Senator Byrd and the Secretary of State for Energy.
The United States also wants key developing countries such as China and India to be included in the process for fear of their refusing legally binding commitments.
The European Union has again clearly stated its position and made known to the United States that we do not think that mere stabilization provides a sufficient political and moral basis from which to convince the developing countries to participate in the process from now on.
Furthermore, the European Union remains convinced that the mechanisms for flexibility and above all trading in emission rights should only be applied on condition that ambitious objectives are put in place which must be achieved largely through domestic actions.
The United States and the European Union agreed to continue bilateral negotiations at all levels in the days to come.
The first occasion that presented itself was the Tokyo Conference of 8 and 9 November.
The participants also had different opinions on the option to be negotiated at Kyoto: the flat rate, proposed by the EU and the United States, or the differentiation of objectives.
The European Union remains convinced that all industrialized countries must adopt legally binding and ambitious objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
I have arranged for European Union Environment Ministers to have an informal meeting on 7 December in Kyoto in order to take stock of the situation and to decide on the course to take in the negotiations.
Meanwhile, we will have to make all the necessary efforts to continue discussions with other key partners so that we can come up with a way of finding a consensus.
Finally, and independently of the Kyoto results, the European Union will have to decide, at its ordinary meeting on 6 December, whether its own negotiating position can become a unilateral arrangement if the other parties cannot accept the targeted reductions.
At that time the European Union will also have to decide on future measures to be taken in order to achieve these objectives.
I am sure that Parliament will support the Commission's efforts in this field after Kyoto.
In about two weeks' time, ministers from more than 150 countries will be meeting at Kyoto in Japan to issue a protocol on climate changes.
This protocol will contain legally binding commitments for the industrialized nations to reduce their emissions in the period after the year 2000.
Let me therefore now take this opportunity of giving my assessment of the situation after attending the meetings in Washington and Tokyo at the beginning of November.
The EU will of course retain its own proposals which, as you know, require a 15 % reduction in emissions of three greenhouse gases by 2010 compared with 1990 and of 7.5 % by the year 2005.
The communication shows that we can achieve our emission reduction targets without harming our economies.
So what we have to do now is to reach a legally binding agreement which sets ambitious reduction targets for all the industrialized nations.
But the question is whether these gases should be included in this basket now or not.
The Commission has raised the question with the Member States.
But as this question is important to our negotiating partners, the Commission and the Member States are currently working on it with the Presidentin-Office in Brussels.
The Commission is trying to find the best way is of reaching a common EU position in this field, and I am of course hoping that Member States will show the necessary flexibility.
Humanity has a rendezvous in Kyoto in three weeks' time.
This time the European Union's position is clear; and this Parliament has given overall support to a 7.5 % reduction in emissions by 2005 and a 15 % reduction by 2010.
This Parliament has admitted as much: as long ago as January we asked the Commission and the Council to tell us objectively, in quantified terms and with supporting data, how we are going to achieve the reductions in emissions to which we are now committing ourselves.
As far as non-European countries are concerned, it is unacceptable that the United States, with 4 % of the world's population, should be responsible for nearly 25 % of the world's atmospheric pollution.
In Kyoto we must achieve a compulsory timetable for reduction by the developed countries and a mechanism embracing all the developing countries to achieve the levelling-out and reduction of atmospheric emissions per capita in the medium term throughout the world.
Madam Commissioner, Minister, we shall be together in Kyoto, but I also hope we shall be here in January, when we finally begin to put into practice what we signed up to at the Earth summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
On the other hand, I am a little sad when I hear what you have to say, and when I think back nine years to the Toronto Objective, formulated at that time, in which there was talk of a 20 % reduction in emissions by the year 2005.
I think we in Europe need industrial innovation right now, and that we could save the costs of change a thousand times over, compared to when the very high costs of climatic change become payable.
We think it is quite the wrong beginning, to solve environmental problems by the creation of new bureaucracies.
There is a very sensible proposal in point 16 of the Linkohr resolution.
The point relating to Community energy tax was dealt with by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy with our support.
Shell, for example, is investing one billion guilders in a new division for solar energy.
Shell is following British Petroleum (BP), which already has a separate division for solar energy.
In addition, investment in developing countries can play a crucial role in this.
To conclude, Mr President, the Liberal Group takes the view that a Community energy tax is only feasible and acceptable when set against a reduction in tax on labour, thus retaining our industry's competitiveness.
Our aim is to achieve a reduction of 15 % by the year 2010.
With this in mind, the majority in this House should be a little more critical and a little more introspective, if they want to reduce the production of greenhouse gases.
Mr President, currently there is a very expensive advertising campaign on US television in which people like the chairman of the Chrysler Corporation tell lies.
And the remainder would disappear if you took measures on other greenhouse gases like CFCs and methane.
If our buildings and, in particular, our houses were designed properly we could manage with hardly any heating or cooling equipment.
If we concentrated on hyper-cars we could have 70 % to 90 % fuel savings.
The European Union is too small, faced by this global problem, to work out solutions on its own.
If bus and car emissions are maintained at their current levels then the average temperature could rise by 2 % compared to 1990 levels.
Because, despite the two instalments of 750 million guilders which the Dutch government has allocated, we will not manage to reduce CO2 emissions to that extent.
Of course we must try to persuade them to go further than the target of stabilization in 2010.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I agree with my fellow group-member Pedro Marset Campos when he says that the most important measure for removing the threat of this environmental catastrophe would be a new economic model to lead us towards sustainable development.
I know that is very difficult, because Europe immediately thinks of its own competitiveness, but if Europe does not go ahead with its decision to reduce emissions, the other countries will never do so.
Mr President, I wish to ask the Commissioner how the European Union can so confidently in the preliminary negotiations for Kyoto offer the reductions that they have done and although we have heard this evening how important these targets are - 7.5 % by the year 2005 and 15 % by 2010 - how can we achieve them?
The Commission has made several proposals for programmes - Thermie II, Synergy, Save II - which were, however, not accepted by the Council or provided with adequate funding.
The most effective method of achieving a substantial reduction in emissions would be through a European Unionwide CO2 tax.
This would restrict emissions within the European Union in the long term while advancing a strategy which would minimize the economic cost as a whole.
Mr President, I come from a country which is, arguably, the best energy-endowed in Europe, namely Scotland.
Mr President, throughout this year, as we have gone from the recent G8 Summit to the UN Earth Summit and then on to the negotiations leading up to the conference on climate change in Kyoto, it has become very obvious that there are clear divisions on a global scale with regard to global warming, in particular on the targets to restrain emissions of the main greenhouse gas CO2 .
The current series of discussions have continued all through the autumn and are not yet at an end, but it is quite clear that we must come to some form of formal decision about the reduction in the emissions of greenhouse gases in Kyoto - in particular CO2 - and that must be done by the end of the year.
We are proposing that the by 2010 industrialized countries should cut their greenhouse gases by 15 % as compared with 1990.
Indeed, I urge them not only not to retreat from that position but actually to seek wider agreement on the need, certainly in principle, for future measures which would in particular bring about an emission standstill in the next century and, possibly, take the concentration of carbon dioxide in the earth's atmosphere from an emission standstill of 550 parts per million down to perhaps as low as 350 parts per million.
We cannot retreat from that position, we must accept that the negotiations at Kyoto are simply the first step.
We must, for example, be prepared to consider very quickly the introduction of technology transfer to developing countries to ensure that they do not present a new series of CO2 emissions that cannot be controlled.
We have to realize that it is not just simply a question of CO2 : there are other greenhouse gases that we must deal with; they have to be part of the treaty.
It is worth exploring but I would not suggest that it is something we should engage in when seeking to achieve an agreement in Kyoto.
We should instead say that this is only the first step.
We all have the future in our hands.
The Commission and the Council in particular have the future in their hands.
Can I commend the Pimenta resolution to the House and concentrate my remarks on what needs to be done in Kyoto.
The Americans are appallingly bad under pressure of that 30 million dollars' worth of advertising put up by the fossil fuel industry.
But there is a more important debate lurking behind the argument about timetables and targets.
The ACP-European Union working party on climatic changes and small insular States, of which I am chairman, has presented a draft resolution, approved unanimously by the Joint Assembly in Lomé on 30 October this year, on ACP-EU cooperation on climatic change and on the third Parity Conference to be held in Kyoto next month, to adopt a binding protocol, or other legal instrument, that will give rise to real reductions in greenhouse gases based on the Berlin Mandate, although we regret we cannot be present or represented in the Japanese city.
This is because the aims of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, indicated in the EU contractual positions, by 15 % by 2010, with an intermediate aim of at least 7.5 % by 2005, are the absolute minimum acceptable and, in actual fact, we should be aspiring to a 20 % reduction by 2005.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we have to have an agreement on climate protection and reduction of greenhouse gases, in order to save mankind and the environment.
The essence of the Pimenta report is that we have come out in support of a 15 % reduction by the year 2010, even if Kyoto fails to produce a binding agreement.
I think we can only be credible when we make it clear that we - regardless of what emerges from Kyoto - are ready to reduce by 15 % by the year 2010.
Mr President, there is an ever- continuing growth in energy consumption worldwide.
As a result of this increase, carbon dioxide emissions are increasing too, and will amount to as much as 8 % by the year 2010.
The decisions we have taken on energy policy should be long term and lead gradually to a considerable decline in carbon dioxide emission levels.
For example, increased traffic exhaust is the direct cause of the rise in greenhouse gases in our atmosphere.
Mr President, limiting emissions of greenhouse gases is one of the great environmental challenges of our time.
I praised the Commission at that time because it came out in favour of ambitious reduction objectives for Kyoto, even though we have to admit that, in view of what Mr Linkohr rightly said, these can only be a very first step and are not actually enough.
President Clinton also mentioned this in his speech in New York.
The Commissioner should do more in this respect.
Mr President, the Kyoto conference on our future climate is, in my opinion, an extremely important event.
In the past Sweden was the first country to set tough targets for carbon dioxide emissions in 1988, entailing unchanged emissions from 1987 onwards.
However, I do think it is important to convey the message that Parliament is going to support the position of the Commission and Council.
Our Member States have to make a major effort, and we must of course call on the governments to reach an agreement about the distribution of the remaining 5 % of the commitment, in addition to the 10 % which has already been agreed.
There is much more to climate change than just gas emissions, and there are scientific phenomena which have not been analyzed sufficiently on a global basis, but which nevertheless need to be kept in mind: the influence of solar emission cycles cannot be ignored.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Commissioner, it is very strange that the same date and the same figure crop up twice in European Union documents: the year 2010 and the figure of 15 % apply both to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and to the contribution of renewable sources to the supply of raw materials for energy production.
No agreement can avoid it.
For example: the wind industry is growing by 25 % every year; in eight years, the world market in solar cells grew from $340 million to $900 million; and the big energy companies are moving more and more towards this sort of energy.
Secondly, regarding harmonization and an increase in energy taxation, we must remember that unanimity is required within the Council to take such a decision.
The Luxembourg Presidency firmly intends to move in this direction, if there is unanimity.
An increase in the taxation of energy could be advantageously combined with a reduction in the costs imposed on labour.
We fully support the objective of increasing the use of renewable energy within the Community from 6 % to 12 %, as a proportion of all energy used.
This group said it was in agreement with testing for alternative products, not only in Luxembourg but also in the United States, because its members have very clearly understood that they could be the first to offer alternatives on the world market as soon as they have them.
I would like to come back to a point raised by several speakers: the European Union proposals for Kyoto.
The European Union proposals for Kyoto are not unilateral reductions but proposals in support of our position at the Kyoto negotiations.
So our objective at Kyoto must be to obtain an ambitious agreement on this point, and I agree with everyone in recognizing that the United States has a very important role to play in this respect.
This is in fact what the Council decided at its ordinary meeting on 16 October.
The question is now very largely how we can put pressure on other countries so we can achieve the highest possible targets in Kyoto.
I also believe (as we have emphasized in our communication) that a sensibly implemented policy offers some opportunities for jobs and not the opposite, as we sometimes hear, and it is true that there are still some unused opportunities in working with industry.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the Council and Commission statements will be taken on Wednesday at 12 noon.
The Joint Committee, pursuant to article 24 of the Association Agreement, has to advise the Association Council, consult internally - this relates to exchanges of opinion and experience - and make recommendations to the Association Council.
The European Parliament had already expressed its opinion at its sitting of 18 July 1996 on the proposal for a Council resolution to define the procedure, passing it by a large majority.
The Council resolved on 19 February 1997 to consult the European Parliament once more on the same proposal in accordance with article 113 of the treaty.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy examined the draft report at its meetings of 16 and 24 September.
At the latter meeting the committee adopted a draft of a legislative decision by 23 votes to one with one abstention.
We have examined the legal basis, i.e., whether article 113 was the correct one.
I believe this amendment in favour of article 113 is simply not applicable, and in its opinion the Committee on Legal Affairs even spoke of dangerous prejudice.
The reality has been completely different since hardly a few weeks after the approval, on this basis, of the Customs Union agreement with Turkey, the Islamic Party came to power in Ankara.
If, at a time when a specific framework for cooperation that is adapted to the importance of our relations with Turkey is being clearly heralded, we prefer to persist in this deviation rather than follow up a fruitful cooperation, then we risk compromising the good relations which have been built up by several of our Member States and of raising artificial and dangerous antagonism.
Mr President, most decisions of the Joint Committee are implemented under article 113 of the EC Treaty.
Legally there is little to be said against the Council's decision to apply article 113 to the position of the Joint Committee on the customs union with Turkey, instead of article 235.
It is curious that the European Commission initially chose article 235 as the legal foundation without giving the reason behind it.
The Committee on Legal Affairs also fears that the change of legal basis damages the institutional balance in the Community.
The proposal for a decision which has been discussed today, was drawn up by the Commission in January 1996 to enable the Community to establish its position at the EC-Turkey Customs Union Joint Committee.
The Commission has no problem approving the new legal basis the Council wanted.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
The Commission's proposal provides that it alone will undertake the construction of the European network.
Let me just touch on a few points in my report which seem to me to be particularly important.
There is great deal to be said for this network, ladies and gentlemen, for transparency in the quality of places of higher education, and for mutually confident cooperation in this field between the Member States.
Mr President, quality assurance in higher education is a difficult and multidimensional matter, because it combines problems to do with differences in systems, educational traditions, and, in particular, the accountability of examinations.
This recommendation invites all Member States to consider equipping their systems of higher education with mechanisms of evaluation and quality assurance.
But for all that, the creation of a European network of quality assurance must not be too hasty.
We must also preserve the autonomy of establishments and, thus, of the policies of the Member States of the Union in this regard.
This principle must be borne in mind when discussing European harmonization in quality assurance in higher education.
We must not lose sight of this idea, particularly at a moment when, within the perspective of enlargement, a certain number of CEECs are being included in our youth and education programmes.
Mr President, the mobility of students and scientists within Europe is still at far too low a level.
Everyone who was involved in these projects, whether they were representing ministers, rectors, further education institutions, authorities responsible for quality assurance, all insisted that the Commission should do something to promote EU cooperation in this field.
I am thinking here of the 17 out of the 38 amendments proposed which the Commission is inclined to approve.
The Commission cannot accept the other 21 changes, amongst other things because they include what we regard as inappropriate additions, such as references to non-member states and even research.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while technical in nature, this rule change has a certain symbolism, particularly when debated in this Chamber, which we are sharing with the Council of Europe at least until next year.
With the aim of making our regulations more legible, several months ago Mr Ford proposed deleting the reference to our relations with the Council of Europe.
There were well-founded reasons for this initial proposal; in fact, Rule154 of our Rules of Procedure provides for the European Parliament to send the Council of Europe a report once a year, as if our MEPs were subordinate to an older brother from whom we are gradually being emancipated.
The report I am presenting today consists of two motions which merely confirm the actual situation.
We are deleting the somewhat out-of-date reference to this moral obligation to present an annual report and we are restricting ourselves to providing in the Rules for the bodies of the European Parliament to maintain mutually beneficial relations with the Council of Europe recognizing, in terms of the Rules, the importance of our special relationship with the Council of Europe, if only because we share the same place of work.
The answer was 1969.
Article 2 of the Protocol on cooperation with the Council of Europe, an annex to the ECSC Treaty says the European Parliament of the Communities shall forward each year to the Consultative Assembly of the Council of Europe a report on its activities.
It should have been taking us to the Court of Justice, although I presume the Commission is also aware of article 4 of the same protocol which demands that the Commission engages in a dialogue with the Council of Europe.
In my view the Dell'Alba report is not formally in contradiction with the Treaty obligation to which Mr Ford has referred.
Article 2 of the Protocol annexed to the Coal and Steel Community Treaty actually makes it a legal obligation.
So I would urge the Parliament, and all those who have come to listen to this debate, to support the amendment that has been tabled by Glyn Ford to this report which I think will render it just about compatible with the treaty provision and make sure that this Parliament remains within the constitution.
Mr President, very briefly, as rapporteur, I would like to thank those colleagues who have taken part in this rich and historic debate.
Vice versa, and I put this question to the authors, while awaiting tomorrow's decision, using a 1952 protocol as a basis which, among other things, recommends that the Members of our Parliament be chosen from the members of the Council of Europe, seems to me to be a little anachronistic.
The debate is closed.
