The Danish Social Democrats consider that the sectoral dialogue in this context is especially important, since the specific expertise of the participants is particularly suited to ensuring that the benefit of direct practical experience is brought to the social dialogue.
In addition, we are very favourably disposed to the view taken in the report that representatives from the future Member States in Eastern and Central Europe be involved as observers in the social dialogue.
It is one more example of how social and labour market policy is being used as a means of furthering integration, with the aim of securing a uniform policy in these fields, partly in the interests of freedom of movement and partly in order to promote competitiveness in the EU.
The purpose of Regulation No 1765/92, which dates back to the 1992 reform of the CAP, was market intervention in the form of set-aside and other measures designed to establish a balance on the cereals market.
Under Regulation No 1765/92, the Commission is entitled to set aside up to 17.5 % of arable land; the current basic rate is 5 %.
The position is that a compromise was reached at the Agriculture Council in June 1997, proposing that the set-aside rate for sowing in the crop year 1998-99 should remain unchanged at 5 %.
In this latest round of farm price negotiations, the Council suddenly rushed into a decision, without waiting for a proposal from the Commission, namely to renew this 5 % set-aside rate.
If we approve the set-aside rate today, the farmers will know before harvest-time what lies in store for them next year, and how much land they will have to take out of production.
Mr President, I am in broad agreement with Mr Funk.
I too believe it would be better to approve this Regulation without any extensive amendments, as a service to farmers.
I think it would have been more intelligent, in terms of general policy, to propose the extensive cultivation of cereal crops, with a view to improving quality and protecting the environment, in particular by reducing the amount of nitrogen or crop protection products used in this type of production as a whole.
We have seen considerable changes taking place since set-aside was introduced.
It was originally 15 %.
We now have 5 %, and if we look carefully at the proposals contained in Agenda 2000, it is meant to return to zero.
What interests me in particular is what has been the case so far with voluntary set-aside.
I think that all these aspects will have to be considered during the year when Agenda 2000 is discussed.
Turning to the substance of the matter, the figure is 5 %, but there is also voluntary set-aside, which is still possible up to a rate of 33 %.
The extension of the 5 % setaside rate is justified in a market situation that is notable for the absence of substantial cereal stocks, both in the Community and on the world scale.
The proposal for the 1998 setaside rate is supplemented by a further exceptional suspension of the setaside system in the event that the basic area is exceeded, and by a temporary adjustment of the sanctions system in the event that an irrigated ceiling is exceeded.
The impact of climatic fluctuations on arable crop production, however, is now forcing us to adopt a policy of caution.
However, the Commission considers that the proposal under consideration is not the appropriate framework for this discussion, which should take place within the context of Agenda 2000.
I hope this adequately covers the concerns expressed by the last speaker, in particular.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, our group welcomes the fact that the Commission has endorsed the proposal made by the Council during the negotiation of the price package: a setaside rate limited to 5 % and the abolition of the extraordinary setaside, the retention of which would have been particularly absurd when cereal stocks are as unusually low as they are at present.
During the last plenary session, our group tabled an amendment, adopted by the House, calling for precisely this 5 % ceiling on the setaside rate, because the European Union, despite the GATT agreements, has to both preserve its export vocation and reconquer its internal market.
Beer even forms a basic source of nutrition in certain countries.
The proportion of aid to be used for common objectives should be increased from 20 % to 40 %.
The obligation on producer groups in future to withhold 5 % per year of the aid to producers for varietal conversion is not practicable, and should therefore be deleted from the proposal.
Mr President, the 1971 Regulation on hops, geared to providing aid on a per-hectare basis and envisaging a varietal conversion programme, was the subject of a four-point Commission proposal last year.
We also agree with the possibility of withholding up to 20 % of the aid to producers to allow the study and implementation of special measures in this field.
Finally, the rapporteur's proposal that total aid should be increased to ECU 500 per hectare seems a good compromise between the Commission's proposal and the demands made by certain Member States who would like to see the premiums virtually doubled.
I understand very well that some Members would like to increase the amounts, but the Commission continues to feel that ECU 450 per hectare is an appropriate sum - not a lavish one, but nonetheless a reasonable amount.
The debate is closed.
The Commission is proposing four changes: 1) differentiated aid for each variety is boosted by flat-rate annual aid; 2) members of recognized producer groups can market all or some of their own produce without being penalized by any reduction in aid; 3) producers will have the possibility of varietal conversion on a permanent basis; 4) 20 % of the aid can be allocated to special measures.
The aid is fixed at ECU 450 per hectare.
With the policy on cartels, the aim has always been to deny legitimacy to other ways of distorting competition, in particular certain agreements between undertakings.
We also need to ensure that an SMU approach runs through all the relevant policy areas, and this is certainly the case in respect of the policy on competition.
We would also call on the Commission to be alive to three specific points and to draw the consequences from them in terms of policy.
That is why, with regard to vertical restraints on competition, in addition to the market share criterion, we are also calling for general clauses, so that distribution networks can be seen in a more global economic perspective.
The Commission's Green Paper gives us an excellent opportunity to review group exemptions and perhaps redefine them or change their scope.
I would just like to take this opportunity to bring to the Commission's attention the many other constraints on competition in trade, for example, the new wave of bans on supermarkets, and also the fact that many countries use their quota monopoly to reduce and hinder the growth of increased competition in the distribution chain.
An approach based purely on market share is less effective in this respect.
As stated in paragraph 13 of the report, this subject particularly concerns beer supply agreements and servicestation agreements, which have hitherto benefited from a system of exemptions.
Regulation 1984-83 provided particular arrangements for these two sectors in the exemptions for each category for exclusive purchasing agreements.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is little to add to this very clear report.
Leaving the relations between the Commission and Parliament to one side, it is also an intellectual pleasure to be able to deal with one another in this way and to discuss what are indeed rather complex but very important matters for a large area of our economic life.
However, a new policy can be worked out and put in place as regards the application of Article 85(1) to these vertical agreements, for instance by moving from a rather legalistic approach, as I have already said, towards a more economic one.
So for the time being, I am inclined to say that for the major cases where a genuinely substantial market position is involved - and once again, we have given a figure of 40 % by way of indication - there really is a need to look at the matter in a better way.
But where I agree with you, Mrs Thyssen, is in hoping that we can do this quickly and efficiently, and I would emphasize the point - as you also have in your report - that we need more people to be able to do that.
The debate is closed.
We therefore vote against paragraph 12 of the report.
The Danish Social Democrats will not praise the Commission for Option I in the Green Paper.
Paragraph 14 of the report praises the Commission for Option I.
Furthermore, exchanges already take place in this area, since the three programmes in question can support schemes which integrate Central and Eastern European countries.
In addition, the TEMPUS programme, set up in 1990 within the framework of PHARE, has laid the foundations for co-operation in the university field.
Nevertheless, in order to be eligible, the proposed activities must concern a minimum number of partners from the European Union.
As regards the financial aspect, the countries concerned are required to contribute to the budget of these programmes (the appropriations required for the 1997 financial year have already been committed) but they have been offered the opportunity of using up to 10 % of the PHARE endowment.
This is an important influence, because the CEECs have sometimes felt like poor relations receiving aid from the European Union.
These various questions have guided us in our work: they have prompted the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and Media to vote in favour of a number of amendments, having considered the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Budgets.
Of course, we realize that these amendments are no more than indicative, but I should like, Commissioner, to know your position first on the need for a preliminary increase in the budget of the Socrates programme, and secondly on the way in which activities under these programmes will be evaluated in the countries concerned.
Commissioner, I am sure you will understand that the replies we receive will play a critical part in the continuation of this process, partly with a view to bringing in other countries (there is talk today of Cyprus, Poland and Slovakia) but also towards bringing in other programmes.
The participation of the CEECs - Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic - in EU education and training programmes is a major structural step towards the consolidation of relations in preparation for their accession to the EU.
Activities to promote foreign language knowledge under the programmes must be supported and stepped up: this is what the Commission describes in its proposals on the implementation of the education and training programmes as the east-west dialogue using the present EU official languages.
An overall concept of integration, for example with regard to lesser-used languages, also means taking into account those such as Romany, the language of the Roma and Sinti, which is spoken in many EU countries.
Languages and cultural aspects in general are a vital component of democratic and social integration, and are at least as important as any financial aspects.
However, these programmes should also make a huge contribution to the economic and qualitative integration of these countries into the European Union through school and business partnerships.
It is of course possible to extend the scope of a greatly underendowed fund, but this will rebound on the present 15 Member States.
An extension would lead not only to frustration in the new countries too, but would also significantly worsen the situation in the existing 15 EU Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was rapporteur three years ago on Leonardo, I had great pleasure in opening up that programme to a number of associated countries in Eastern Europe, together with Malta and Cyprus.
However, I would also point out - and this has been underlined correctly and extremely well by the rapporteur - that we cannot just go on adding things to programmes and letting countries take part in them when they are already ten times oversubscribed.
The problem now is that at the same time we are negotiating with the Council about an increase in funding.
The Council informed us two weeks ago that it would grant only ECU 25 million more for the next two years.
We had asked for an extra ECU 100 m for the next two years.
In fact, we would need ECU 163 m for the next two years just to carry out the Erasmus part.
Unless SOCRATES is given at least 100 million ECU more, the extension to the countries of central and eastern Europe will have negative rather than positive consequences.
They are primarily responsible for the present situation, not only because of the structure, which after all has put us in an impossible position on foreign policy on many occasions, but also because the Council never thinks through what it does, handing us tasks which we cannot fulfil.
However, we do take very seriously the idea which the rapporteur has put forward that these programmes must be monitored in an appropriate way.
However, there is still a problem, at least at this stage: funding, especially in the case of Socrates.
The Council must now adopt the right order of priorities.
From the point of view of the budget as a whole, the required increase in funding for Socrates represents a small amount, but to young people both in the existing Member States and in future Member States, it is important.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report on structural operations in France is another opportunity to emphasize the major part played by Community action in favour of economic and social cohesion.
In general terms, France can be regarded as one of the richer countries in the Union.
In the Paris region we have a GDP per inhabitant equal to 165 % of the Community average, yet it is a French region - Guadeloupe - that is classified by the Commission as the poorest region in the Union.
France benefits substantially from the structural funds, receiving about 10 % of all appropriations over the period 1994-9.
In this context, we can welcome the proposal for greater geographical concentration of some forms of Community aid to benefit the least favoured regions.
Mr President, first of all I should like to thank Bernard Castagnède for the receptive attitude he has demonstrated while preparing his report.
Consequently, reports on structural operations in the Member States are of particular importance.
That is, of course, the main objective of this type of report, but we should also strongly emphasize the positive aspects of regional policy, which Mr Castagnède has just mentioned in his speech.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this balanced report which, although it emphasizes the responsibilities incumbent upon the Commission, is also incisive in dealing with the responsibilities of the French Government and its administration, which, in my view, are considerably more influential with regard to the difficulties to which I have referred.
Mr President, Commissioner, our colleagues have given us an admirable account of the development problems and structural operations in France under Objectives I and II, and the ways in which these shortcomings might be addressed.
First, in studying the structural operations in France, and very particularly in listening to the various regional officials, we have become aware of the existence of a number of inefficiencies, rigidities and delays in the consumption of those Community appropriations which, as you know, are so badly needed in the regions of France that qualify under Objectives I and II.
Finally, I would remind the House that in all probability the total Community contributions for the period following 1999 will be conditioned by the commitment rate achieved as of 31 December 1999.
My second comment is this: in the context of the debate on the decentralized management of the structural funds initiated by Agenda 2000, we must - as I stated in committee - find an administrative framework for the activities of the structural funds when they are granted to regions that have no administrative existence and no budgetary powers of their own.
It seems essential to me that we should call for a transitional phase for those regions that are currently eligible for the structural funds but will no longer be in 1999.
Leaving aside these two points, on which the PPE Group wished to retable amendments in the House, we welcome the fact that the competent authorities have finally been called upon to ensure adequate publicity for European aid in the form of publicly displayed plaques, panels and brochures, which will bring us closer to the citizen.
Mr President, the President of the European Commission, Mr Santer, clearly stated on 16 July when presenting Agenda 2000 that the Objective I eligibility criteria will be strictly applied in 1999, in view of the financial effort devoted to enlarging the European Union to include the new Member States.
This redistribution of European aid will take place, we may be sure, at the expense of regions that receive aid today, which include Corsica.
This announcement has caused a great deal of alarm and confusion in an island which faces serious structural and economic difficulties and is particularly pro-European.
Admittedly, European appropriations will be reduced gradually between 2002 and 2004.
Admittedly, two current Objective I budget lines will be unaffected - the campaign against unemployment and aid to regions in industrial or rural decline.
Admittedly, too, there will be one valuable avenue in the future with the concept of a rural area within the future Objective II.
But instead of fighting a rearguard action, even an honourable one, it would be better to undertake a firm commitment to long-term consideration of the obvious imbalances and handicaps affecting Europe's island regions, by giving greater depth to the status of islands, especially Mediterranean islands, which was effectively institutionally recognized at the Amsterdam Summit on 16 June.
It is within that framework that the future of the structural, economic and social relations between Corsica and the European Union will need to be conceived from now on.
The transfer of appropriations from Paris to the regions generally takes between four and six months, and while we have recently seen some improvement, it would appear that Article 21 of the regulation on coordination of the Structural Funds - which provides for a maximum period of three months - is still not being observed.
The issue has also been raised of the relocation of businesses between different Member States, as well as between regions within Member States, and this is a problem which is steadily increasing.
The same problem is occurring in Belgium, where firms move from one region to another amid the suspicion that this is connected with the regional aid which is available there.
The report stresses the increase in appropriations in many sectors.
In any case, modern communications techniques mean that it is much easier than it was in the last century to sustain and develop economic activities in rural areas.
The European Union's regional policy represents an essential tool and support, which is in need of improvement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our readiness to provide all possible forms of financial assistance to the states of Central and Eastern Europe is beyond doubt.
It is then important for the remaining financial requirements to be covered by EU financial aid.
I would now ask you, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, to speak to the House.
The Committee on Budgets, virtually unanimously as I said, endorsed the idea of this combination while wishing to stress its exceptional nature, having regard to the fact that it attaches particular importance to its relations with the countries concerned.
Regarding the questions to the Commission proposed in the opinion, the Committee on Budgets has, in essence, received favourable replies, particularly regarding the proposed ECU 95 million financing.
Mr President, that concludes my remarks on behalf of the Committee on Budgets.
And we call this support for economic reform in these countries!
Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 19 of our Rules of Procedure, the President is authorized to organize the work of the part-session.
It is also a great pleasure for me to do so, as I am speaking on a report by our respected colleague Mr Kittelmann which he has just introduced.
A separate decision will have to be taken on that, when this country meets the conditions.
The proposal to provide aid of ECU 170 million in the form of long-term loans, with a grant component of ECU 50 m, only partly solves the debt problems of these countries.
This makes it harder rather than easier for Armenia and Georgia to stabilize their debt burden.
The ECOFIN Council included many of these points in the decision of principle on financial assistance which it adopted in February.
Once again, Mr President, thank you for the time I have been able to take for this final contribution.
Thank you, Mr President, my best wishes to the European Parliament and all my colleagues, and many thanks again for what you have done for me.
As far as the report is concerned, I naturally have mixed feelings about the fact that the vote on financial assistance to Armenia, Georgia and Tajikistan is not to take place today, if I have understood correctly.
What I would say in any event is how much I and other colleagues have appreciated working with him for all these years.
This is therefore exceptional assistance which cannot be seen as a precedent for similar aid to other newly independent states.
Such combinations of loans and grants have in fact proved very helpful in the past and may also be of service in the future, where the economic situation in the beneficiary countries is appropriate.
And now we are in some difficulty.
But I do urge all colleagues to support this request by the Committee on Budgets.
