Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 24 May 1996.
Mr President, I should like to refer to the Rules of Procedure, more particularly Rule 5.
Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Bureau is to lay down rules governing the payment of expenses and allowances to Members.
Rule 4 of the Bureau's rules provides amongst other things, first that Members are entitled to the lump sum travel allowance mentioned in Article 1(1) for only one return journey each week.
I ask you, Mr President, whether or not the provisions of Rule 4 of these rules on Members' expenses and allowances are being applied.
I will read you Article 6 of the Treaty.
Mr President, am I regarded as doing different work from my neighbour, Mr Giansily?
But you are not bold enough for that.
You will have to apply Article 6 of the Treaty.
We shall correct that, Mr Malangré. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Mr President, I ask to speak under Rule 108 of our Rules of Procedure, which states very clearly that Members have the right to ask to make a personal statement.
The item under discussion on the agenda was the speech by Mr Martens, who referred to a Belga report but also mentioned statements.
I have the right under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure speak in order to refute any remarks made about my person.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today to talk to you about a subject of the utmost importance to our Union - the campaign against unemployment.
More specifically, I am here to present the communication which the Commission adopted this morning and whose purpose is to give concrete form to the ideas I presented to you on 31 January this year in connection with a European Pact of Trust for employment.
However, before I deal with that subject, I think that it is my duty, in view of the extreme topicality of the matter, to inform you of the decision on principle which the Commission took this morning regarding the matter of BSE, more commonly known as the 'mad cow' affair.
As you know, the Council of Ministers of Agriculture was unable, last Monday, to rule on the Commission's proposal that the embargo on British exports of gelatin, tallow and semen should be lifted.
According to our comitological rules, it now becomes a matter for the Commission to take the decision, doing so on the basis of its own proposal - a proposal, incidentally, that was made several weeks ago, well before the start of the British policy of non-cooperation.
I emphasize the fact that the decision taken by the Commission this morning is a decision on principle, given that the period during which the Council may express an opinion on this matter does not end until next Sunday.
It follows that the Commission cannot take a formal decision until immediately after that, in other words on 10 June.
As for the implementation of the decision, I would remind you that a number of very strict conditions have to be satisfied in order to ensure the protection of health.
It will continue to do so, with the aim of arriving as soon as possible at normalization of trade with the United Kingdom in the beef and veal sector.
However, there is no doubt that British authorities still bear the primary responsibility for enabling the entire Union - because this is a Union problem, not just a United Kingdom problem - to move forward towards that normalization.
The Commission debated this matter in depth this morning.
Such attitudes have no place in a Union based on law and solidarity - which, by definition, is reciprocal.
With your permission, ladies and gentlemen, I shall quote from Article 5 of the Treaty, which reads as follows: ' Member States shall take all appropriate measures, whether general or particular, to ensure fulfilment of the obligations arising out of this Treaty or resulting from action taken by institutions of the Community.
Ultimately, they lead to ridiculous situations in which the United Kingdom is blocking decisions which have always figured among its own priorities: the campaign against fraud, the simplification of Community legislation, the efforts to combat racism.
This morning, the Commission held a discussion in depth of its ideas on employment.
The challenge of unemployment is not just economic but social and moral too.
We cannot expect to achieve a leap forward in creativity and dynamism to maintain our living standard within an open world market if at the same time 15 to 20 % of our fellow citizens are on the sidelines.
Let us take this fact as a starting point: the strategy set out in the White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment in 1993 is a good strategy, but its implementation needs to be improved.
To achieve this, the Pact defines a threefold objective: mobilizing all the actors concerned in a genuine strategy for employment, taking greater advantage of the European multiplier effect, and integrating the campaign against unemployment into a medium- and long-term vision of society.
The individual measures are praiseworthy, but ineffective or socially unacceptable.
In this context, Europe holds some powerful trumps, but the potential of the integration process is not yet being used to its best advantage.
Growth is essential in order to create jobs.
Today, there is a broad consensus between the political authorities and the social partners on the right road to take.
So we must hold to our course, but at the same time we need to develop a number of additional tracks to strengthen and refine the strategy.
However, the Commission considers that this consolidation should be guided by three principles: reducing expenditure is preferable to increasing taxation; active employment measures must be given precedence over passive expenditure on unemployment insurance; the tax on labour increased by 20 % between 1980 and 1993, whereas the tax burden on the other production factors fell by 10 %.
But it is necessary for the Member States to update their programmes and to do more to emphasize consistency between the various national measures in favour of convergence and the promotion of employment.
The lines of action I have listed are also designed to strengthen our competitiveness.
We must fully exploit its potential - all its potential.
And let us be honest about this: the internal market is still incomplete or unevenly realized.
These measures need to be adopted before the end of 1996.
The adoption of the new action programme for small- and medium-sized enterprises before the end of this year would show that our governments are seriously pursuing that objective.
Furthermore, the level of state aid is amounting to several tens of thousands of millions of ecus per year within the Union.
But the Union does have its part to play, as was demonstrated by the European Council in Essen when it outlined the common framework for structural reform of the employment market in the form of five action priorities.
A procedure for monitoring the implementation of those five priorities has been adopted through the national multiannual programmes.
This procedure builds a bridge between overall macroeconomic coordination and the future prospects for employment and unemployment.
The analysis of the Member States' multiannual programmes prompts us to define two objectives in our communication: national employment policies need to be better activated, and the major projects for the future of employment need to be opened up.
In order to active the national employment policies, we recommend that the administrative systems for employment should be reformed, for example by simplifying aid to recruitment or to the creation of microenterprises.
We recommend that the local actors should be mobilized, for example by the decentralization of employment systems and the promotion of local development and employment initiatives.
We recommend joint initiatives by the social partners on the integration of young people, and that programmes like Leonardo and Youth Start should be seen as an inspiration for the development of new initiatives.
As regards the major projects for the future, the Pact explores new approaches to the organization of labour and of education/training as levers to create access to employment.
Now I come to the fourth and last section of our communication.
The European structural policies, need, as a priority, to be placed at the service of employment.
It is a matter for the Member States, the regions, the local authorities and the economic and social partners to accept their responsibilities and use this room for manoeuvre in order to increase the impact of the structural policies on employment.
The Commission, for its part, would like the Member States to commit themselves to devoting to employment the ECU 5, 500 million for the period 1996-1999 deriving from the application of the deflator to all the programmes and objectives of the structural policy.
Furthermore, the Commission proposes that the ECU 8, 000 million available for the Objective 2 planning over the period 1997-1999 be allocated to retraining schemes designed to maintain employment and to create new jobs in the regions in question.
The Commission will be drawing up the new Objective 2 programmes on this basis.
A deadline is coming up as early as next month, with the mid-term revision of the structural action programmes relating to Objectives 1, 3, 4 and 5b.
In the course of that revision, we would like the Member States to commit themselves in the light of the evaluation of the impact of the programmes on employment.
Early in 1997, the Commission will decide upon the revision of the programme, taking account of that impact.
Thus, we want to give precedence to innovative action in favour of small- and medium-sized enterprises and a closer partnership between the Structural Funds and the European Investment Bank.
Finally, in this context, we need to encourage local development and employment initiatives.
The Commission will take particular responsibility for these priorities and for cooperation with the European Investment Bank in the new or revised programmes.
The full efficiency of the reforms of the employment system, like the efficiency of innovative steps by businesses, depends on the mobilization of the public and private actors on the appropriate territorial scale.
The European Council in Florence should give the political starting signal for a selection process to find pilot regions and cities willing to commit themselves to a local pact on employment.
I appeal, therefore, to all our governments, to the social partners at all levels and to all our institutions to accept their responsibilities and play their respective roles, each at its own level.
I should like to remind the House that we have this subject on tomorrow's agenda and that the agreement reached by the groups is that we should discuss the topic of employment policy and the decision taken by the Commission on that subject this morning.
President Santer, I very much welcome your statement today and your continuing efforts to promote the idea of added value at Community level in the field of employment.
I want to make three brief points on what you have said: firstly, some of us in this House are a little concerned about the Commission's recommendation on the broad economic guidelines.
Finally, you mentioned the Essen follow-up process.
Mr President, first of all, we are of course presenting this action at Commission level, at Community level, in order - as you said just now, Mr Hughes - to promote the value added to the efforts made by the Member States.
It is necessary, then, for very specific commitments to be entered into by all those concerned, not only at government level but also at the level of the social partners.
Furthermore, we are conducting a dialogue with the social partners on a number of these matters.
It is statistical progress, but it needs to be given more substance if we are to make real progress along the road to the reduction of unemployment.
Mr President, in our communication we provided for a number of schemes relating to the employability of young people, placing more emphasis on a common initiative by the social partners for the integration of the young.
This is an initiative to be developed jointly with the Commission and Member States.
The President of the Commission pointed out that the parts of the structural funds not being spent are an embarrassment since we need greater investment to create more employment.
I believe that these funds still offer a great many opportunities, because three-quarters of them are used in regions where two-thirds of our unemployment is concentrated.
To put it another way, the funds are one of the main ways of guaranteeing the reduction of unemployment and greater employability in those regions within the framework of joint programmes - together with the Member States, naturally.
I can tell you that the Commission has drafted a communication on taxation, in connection with which we are currently discussing the relations between direct taxation, indirect taxation and the tax on employment.
You can attend the forthcoming summit meetings confident in the strong support of this Parliament.
All these measures are small-scale ones.
Mr President, Prime Minister Rocard is certainly right to stress a number of matters which, indeed, must be included in our overall strategy if it is to produce concrete results.
First, I should say that our communication, and our strategy, are not intended to replace the responsibility of our Member States, because we are fully aware that it is with the Member States that the primary responsibility lies, and that they and the national governments have their own homework to do.
We consider that this is a special project which needs to be debated, negotiated and discussed between the social partners, and I alerted them to the fact at the Round Table on 28 and 29 April.
The objective must be - building on what has already been achieved in the agreement on parental leave which the various social partners have succeeded in concluding for the first time - to go further in the quest for new ways of reconciling personal time and company time.
This is an important debate which concerns all our Member States, and not one in which the Commission can impose a decision.
A number of social problems have also been created, especially in rural areas and in the agricultural sector.
Mr President, two short questions.
Yesterday the Council of Ministers, without the United Kingdom, adopted the directive on parental leave.
My second question is this: our states are caught between two fires.
For the moment, we can only live within the jurisdiction we have, in accordance with the provisions of the Maastricht Treaty, where in point of fact the social chapter applied only to 14 states, not 15.
As regards your second question, we have developed, within the Commission, a complete and consistent programme on taxation, incorporating both indirect taxation, to ensure the introduction of the final system for VAT, and direct taxation, including taxation of earned income.
This programme contains lines of thought which Commissioner Monti has identified and which were the subject of discussions at the informal Ecofin Council held in Verona six weeks ago.
On that occasion, the Finance Ministers decided to set up a committee of personal representatives, chaired by the Commission, to enable what I hope will be decisive progress to be made in the field which must concern us all.
The LEONARDO programme has been a failure on a number of occasions as an example where cooperation is possible between social partners and the business world.
This commitment to negotiations between the social partners could initially be reached on four matters, which seem to me essential, as of now.
And fourthly, they are going to produce a joint opinion on the structural funds.
All this in itself seems to me to represent a very decisive commitment by the social partners at that level.
Mr President, as the third pillar in your proposals for improving labour-market policy you referred to the electricity sector, the creation of the single electricity market.
What we want to do with the internal market is to take full advantage of all its potential.
What we are trying to achieve is a situation where this internal market really functions as an integrated internal market, on the model of the American market, which operates as an internal market with a single currency.
That is why European business is still unable to exploit all the potential inherent in this internal market.
We do not want any new structural-fund resources but rather more effective application of the existing structural funds.
We want to build on the substance of the 1993 White Paper on Competitiveness, Employment and Competition, but we are not trying to extend our jurisdiction.
We do not want more money.
All we want is to have the necessary financial resources within the framework of the present budget to be able to finance the 14 priority transeuropean networks which we have decided to set up, so that the citizens of Europe can see that decisions taken at the highest level do produce results.
Mr President, as far as the first question is concerned, we certainly do not want to compel the social partners to reach an agreement - quite the reverse.
It is a matter for them, through the device of a social dialogue on their own terms, to find avenues, channels of thought, to bring them to specific results on the basis of a number of proposals which we are making to them.
I can assure you, the social partners whom I have met in all the Member States, without exception, are ready to meet this challenge.
Monetary union as such is not an end in itself; it is the instrument of a policy of economic and social development.
I should like to ask the President of the Commission to what extent Parliament's conclusions as set out in its resolution of 9 May were taken into account in drawing up the document referred to today, especially Parliament's references to the need to eliminate existing rigidities in the labour market, its reference to a reduction in non-wage labour costs and to the adaptation of working time and work organization.
I notice that the President of the Commission referred to reduction in working time, not adaptation of working time.
When you read our communication, you will find these matters examined in the context of greater flexibility for our employment market.
It goes without saying that I am also in favour of reducing the cost of labour, but we shall then have to see how these costs are replaced by other measures, other means.
But the adaptation of working hours by using new forms of so-called atypical work is already becoming the normal, typical way of working in some of our Member States.
Mr President, President Santer has set out an argument which at the end of the day, as far as I am concerned, represents a voluntary declaration, with specific objectives to be achieved.
So I wonder whether your speech is not addressed more to the market forces than to the citizens, who for their part are wondering whether the economy is in the service of man or man is a slave to the economy.
And you need only read, or reread, the report by the Ciampi group, headed by the former Prime Minister and current Minister of Finance in the Italian Government who also chairs our advisory board on competitiveness, to see that competitiveness is not the enemy of employment.
It is not competitiveness that is killing off jobs, but there is a need to find the link between competitiveness and the creation of new jobs.
That is what we are trying to achieve in Chapter 3 of our communication, which I invite you to study very thoroughly.
My question concerns how the Commission President sees it; does he think it is compatible with today's convergence policy and the convergence criteria for monetary union that demand and investment should today be maintained through the Member States' national budgets?
Mr President, I can tell the honourable Member that we are in full agreement with the proposals made on this matter by the Swedish Government in the context of the intergovernmental conference.
The Commission supports the Swedish proposals which are not in conflict with the objectives of convergence as laid down.
I welcome President Santer's discussion of the role of cities, towns and regions in the economic reconstruction of Europe.
My name is Voggenhuber.
I think I am probably the only one here in Parliament who can say that I made my first visit to the Sahara more than fifty years ago.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has unanimously asked the Commission to make a statement on one particular point: our view of the human rights situation in Morocco and the Commission's position with regard to the Western Sahara.
First, and as regards the subject of human rights and democratic principles in Morocco, the Commission regards it as important - and this is the point of view we put to the European Parliament -that these matters have developed favourably in the past few years.
The Commission thinks that no-one of good will can deny the substantial progress made in recent years on the subject of human rights in Morocco.
And the Moroccan authorities themselves, in their political dialogue with the Commission, acknowledge in fact that the desired level of observance of human rights has not yet been reached.
But, Mr President, I should like to give a special and detailed explanation of the reasons why the Commission thinks the European Parliament should make a positive response to the association agreement, whilst respecting the different points of view with regard to pace, content or intensity but accepting that progress in the matter of human rights is clear and definite.
You know that King Hassan II has announced a package of measures concerning reform of the constitution with the object of bringing the Moroccan democratic system up to a level which most of you would regard as appropriate.
And precisely because you are Members of Parliament you will have to acknowledge a crucial feature of that reform: the direct election by the citizens of Morocco of the 333 members of the parliament and the establishment of a new chamber of regional representatives, the Senate.
One feature which has always attracted some of the European Parliament's major criticisms with regard to the Moroccan parliamentary system is even now undergoing a constitutional reform, so that after the new parliamentary elections the parliament will contain solely members elected by their fellow citizens.
I have myself visited the Moroccan Parliament and have been able to appreciate the intensity of this reform phenomenon, which it is proposed to implement during the second half year.
The Commission is clearly in favour of dialogue and helping the Moroccans' own political forces so that they may make the final leap, independently and respecting their own sovereignty, for the realization of a constitutional reform which will finally endorse the Moroccan system as regards what some of you - whether you are for or against - will recognize as a parliamentary system governed by the rule of law.
It is an integral part of the association agreement and constitutes an essential feature of the future of relations between the European Union and Morocco and it is expressly mentioned in the agreement for which we are going to ask you to vote.
Consequently it seems to us in the Commission that the European Parliament's most subtle and intelligent course is specifically to see that this association agreement comes into force because in this way we shall have established a dialogue with the Moroccan political forces with the very clear objective of helping them to take the final decisive steps, without our meddling or interfering in the internal process, which is very sensitive and complex, to bring about this change which is at this moment under way in Moroccan society.
The second sensitive issue is the Western Sahara.
The Commission has always contended that the initiative and leadership with regard to the Western Sahara is a matter for the United Nations.
That has always seemed to us the natural setting in which possible negotiations should take place.
I imagine that the European Union's position will depend on the final report which the Secretary General of the United Nations has to draw up, to be submitted, as you know, on 31 August.
In any case it is clear that, whether as a result of the initiative of this Parliament or of some Member State, the European Union will have to concern itself with this question at the end of the summer once the Security Council has finally given its views.
Since we are laying down a stable and solid southern frontier for Europe, the European Parliament will help us to consolidate the pieces little by little and one fundamental piece in the consolidation of a stable southern frontier is precisely the Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr President, we thank the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Marín, for the detailed explanations he has given us.
The European Union has demonstrated its political will.
For Morocco this agreement is a fundamental political option aimed at anchoring its economy and society firmly to Europe, but it must not be forgotten that there are also economic risks inherent in carrying out the agreement.
Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, I should like to add my speech to the previous ones, giving express support to this agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco.
And we must appreciate the desirability of mutual understanding between two cultures - European and Moroccan in this case - for establishing important collaboration.
There is a possibility of exchange of scientific information and of exchanges in the policy of training of research workers which I think might be enormously profitable for both the Kingdom of Morocco and the European Union.
We therefore heartily applaud the association agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr President, this is a debate of particular importance and also of particular sensitivity for those of us who represent countries which, like Spain, have special ties not only of neighbourliness but also cultural and economic ties with the Kingdom of Morocco.
We cannot agree with those who prefer to reject this agreement for purely political reasons, citing the democratic deficit of that country, the question of human rights or of the Sahara.
It is true that Morocco is not an exemplary country in that direction, but a politician neither can nor must ignore reality or practicality, trying to make everything fit the ideal of certain objectives which may be achieved with words and good intentions but which are closely bound up with economic and social development.
On the other hand the Moroccan economy needs alternatives to the proliferation of a corrupt economy sustained by the cultivation of drugs, which increases as a function of the needs of the population as a result of their level of poverty and underdevelopment, not to mention the needs in infrastructures such as transport, health services or modernization of their own administration.
This agreement is aimed at collaboration in the full development of all those fields I have mentioned and indirectly to increasing stability and democratic development to make the country more prosperous and with a higher social and cultural level.
All that does not mean it is a blank cheque to the Kingdom of Morocco but implies more stringent monitoring as regards compliance with agreements and the rules of the International Labour Organization in the social sphere, particularly those relating to child labour and working women, respect for freedom of trade unions, dialogue and social protection which at the moment are clearly insufficient.
Morocco must also take steps to control not only its own emigration but the emigration taking place across its territory from African third countries and must collaborate to put an end once and for all to the degrading spectacle of the little boats in the straits of Gibraltar and Central African pressure on the Spanish frontiers of the Union such as Ceuta and Melilla.
In brief, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is wise to vote in favour of this association agreement, because it will have a positive effect not only in giving Morocco a larger slice of freedom and democracy and the means to demand more, but in guaranteeing greater stability, peace and security in the whole Mediterranean region as was agreed at the last Euro-Mediterranean Conference held in Barcelona.
Mr President, Parliament's Committee on Development and Cooperation urges ratification of the agreement with Morocco, as another important step in the new Euro-Mediterranean strategy identified at Barcelona last November.
This involves moving to a new strategic equilibrium in the external relations of the European Union after the priority given to the central and eastern European countries in recent years.
Mr President, the Committee on Fisheries has given its opinion in favour of the Association Agreement with Morocco, which was considered by both parties as inseparable from the conclusion of a fisheries agreement with that country for a period of four years.
Agreement with Morocco - Human Rights in Morocco and Western Sahara (continuation) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and geostrategic importance of the association agreement on which we are being asked to vote is obvious.
In our case, these values and forms of behaviour took nearly 200 years to come into existence.
In the Islamic cultural sphere, the movement to introduce democracy began much more recently.
The current position is that the human rights situation in Morocco is unsatisfactory.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should vote in favour of this agreement, as a sign of encouragement, as a positive bet on the future, and also as a means of keeping up pressure whenever negotiations take place regarding application or renewal.
Following the signing of the agreements with Israel and Tunisia this agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco must be regarded as one of the objectives announced at the European Council of Essen and developed at the Euro-Mediterranean Conference of Barcelona.
On the other hand this represents a demand put forward years ago by the European Parliament and particularly by its Committees on Foreign Affairs and on Development and Cooperation.
Progress is thus being made in the rebalancing of the Union's policies to make it possible to deal with our relations with our neighbours in Central and Eastern Europe and in a similar manner with our neighbours on the southern flank of Europe.
The agreement we are discussing has an economic and commercial content, aimed fundamentally at the economic and social development of the Kingdom of Morocco and the growth of economic and commercial relations between Morocco and the European Union.
But I should like to emphasize that the agreement itself lays down, as one of its first provisions, that one essential feature of the new framework of our relations is to be respect for human rights and democratic principles.
On the other hand, Mr President, we are sorry that the United Nations did not succeed in the task assigned to them of keeping peace in the Western Sahara and organizing the referendum on self-determination to bring the long process of decolonization of the territory to a close.
I cannot finish, Mr President, without referring to the concern felt at the terms of the agreement with Morocco in certain economic sectors, particularly amongst growers of tomatoes, fruit, vegetables, flowers and plants in certain European regions - regions certainly among the least developed in Europe, which might in the end be placed at an unfair disadvantage by an agreement which, as a whole, is obviously of benefit to the signatories and which we, of course, support without reserve.
Morocco, in particular, like Tunisia, is also a precious area of stability, which contributes significantly to the containment of the violence which is unfortunately still present in Algeria and hence contributes not only to regional but also Mediterranean and European stability.
To try to establish any kind of agreement between the European Union and a third country and to require the ideal - I repeat the ideal - of democracy and human rights draws us inevitably into the Kingdom of Utopia - that is, into an illusion.
Apart from that, and in fulfilment of the undertakings of the Barcelona Conference, this agreement brings Morocco closer to the European Union and is one more step towards the good relations which the European Union wishes to establish with the countries of the Maghreb.
How sad it is to hear in this House that progress has been made because a few political prisoners have been released!
The question is when it will be appropriate to enter into an association agreement with Morocco.
The fact is that there are two factors that can militate against the adoption of the text before us today.
All these things are still true but, to be a little more specific, they are becoming less and less true.
And we need to help our democratic friends in Morocco to ensure that these things are no longer true at all.
The second point which seems to be deterring some of our colleagues from endorsing the text produced by our rapporteur, Otto von Habsburg - who, incidentally, I must congratulate - is the matter of Western Sahara.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has to be realistic.
Since the first days of independence, Morocco has pursued a dual objective: defending its own identity while developing in partnership with Europe.
After all, at a time when the Member States of the European Union are using all their resources to fight against illegal immigration and the marginalization that it generates, Morocco has embarked upon the road of selfcentred development which proposes to make full use of all its human resources.
Yet the association agreement you are offering us gives rise to serious reservations on our part, the same reservations that we have entered in all similar cases.
Ladies and gentlemen, before we presume to give lessons to the King of Morocco, let us start by putting our own house in order.
In many ways, there is more freedom of expression in Morocco than there is in Europe.
But it seems to us that those rights should be determined by ordinary international civil law.
Thirdly, we have always believed that the European Union should confine itself to a European political, economic and cultural area.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we needed here was not a general free-trade agreement but an agreement on cooperation, close cooperation.
It is true that the Mediterranean countries are as deserving of our attention as those of central Europe, but you have not gone the right way about strengthening our links with this great country.
But when such a man as Abraham Serfati who spent more than ten years in Moroccan jails confirms these small steps in the field of human rights, who are we to dismiss them out of hand and refuse to count their weight in balancing our scales for or against an agreement.
It smacks of Realpolitik and I support what Mr De Melo said about it - approving the association agreement on the basis of a joint resolution on democracy and human rights, rather than slamming the door on a country whose citizens are daily in our midst.
Mr President, I should like to consider this subject from the point of view of finance since, if I did so from the point of view of politics I might be as inconsistent as the Member who expressed disagreement here today and yet voted in favour of an association agreement with Cuba.
In the Committee on Budgets we gave an opinion favourable to the association agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco in a letter signed by the chairman of the committee himself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we have been asked to approve today is an especially important one both for our Member States and for the Kingdom of Morocco.
This is no longer just a matter of renewing the previous 1976 agreement, but a matter of redefining the economic and politic relationships between the European Union and the Mediterranean seaboard States as was decided at the European Councils at Essen in 1994, and at Cannes in 1995, and since then at the Barcelona conference, which laid the groundwork for closer multilateral cooperation designed to create a Euromediterranean region of stability, peace and prosperity.
We all know how the political situation in a country depends on its economy, and so we are also all in agreement that economic aid from the Union can help a country to maintain a precarious but essential political equilibrium.
Undeniably, significant results have been achieved by Morocco in this field, thanks to the international mobilization of opinion to which this House made a powerful contribution.
The situation in Western Sahara, which was one of the main reasons this House rejected the financial protocol with Morocco in 1992, has not improved.
The Moroccan government is still pursuing its policy of obstructiveness.
I believe it will be illusory and ineffective to approve this agreement after having first made grandiose statements about human rights to clear our consciences.
The European Parliament has always taken a clear and unequivocal position on Morocco and the Western Sahara.
But before we can sign or approve this agreement here today, we need a political solution for the Western Sahara, and that means Moroccan withdrawal from the Western Sahara.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the proceedings perhaps I may concentrate on the salient points of this debate, because actually we are asked for an opinion on the association agreement with Morocco.
The fact that this agreement is going to have to be ratified by the 15 Parliaments of the Member States of the Union may give us an idea of its parliamentary importance.
Everything in it relates to commitments for the immediate short-, medium- or long-term future.
Mr President, this agreement with Morocco is a good example of lack of transparency.
Once again productive sectors of the poorest countries in the Union are affected, particularly in Portugal, with the unfortunate but active participation of the present government, with thousands of jobs placed in jeopardy by a trade liberalization which even manages to breach the conditions of GATT which themselves are so onerous.
Mr President, we all want to strengthen our links with Morocco.
In view of Spain's subsequent experience I am in favour of this agreement and of support for the most active sectors of society.
But I think that this agreement is one step further in that most important process initiated in Barcelona and we must welcome that.
The Mediterranean countries are asking us to play our part in the region, and we must do so and make the greatest possible use of the means which this agreement offers for turning the Mediterranean into a zone of dialogue for mutual understanding and so that our sea may be a more prosperous and a freer area.
And especially with Morocco, that is even more true.
I would like to dwell on the two points which are causing a problem.
I am taking this gamble, yes, because I believe that there are times in politics when we should follow the dictates of our hearts because our heads are not sure of the way.
Non-admission of Croatia to the Council of Europe The next item is the statement by the Council on the non-admission of Croatia to the Council of Europe.
Mr President, as Members are aware, Croatia applied for membership of the Council of Europe in September 1992 and in December of the same year the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe asked the Assembly for assent.
The state of war which developed in former Yugoslavia obviously made the procedure for ascertaining that all the requirements necessary for Croatia's membership of the Council of Europe were in place more complex and lengthy.
Anyway, in 1995 the Assembly gave assent, after a rather complex passage, but made that assent subject to certain conditions, in particular relating to full recognition and respect for human rights, with particular reference to refugees and minorities, to total commitment by the Zagreb government to implementing the peace agreements and to full cooperation by the Croatian government with the International War Crimes Tribunal at The Hague.
The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe took note of that position and sent the assent on, explaining the request to fulfil a series of conditions even more precisely to the Zagreb government.
It is particularly important that membership of the Council of Europe should be consequent on total compliance by the Croatian government with all the conditions called for by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers and confirmed at the recent meeting of the standing committee of the Council of Europe in Salonika.
The coordinated position of the European Union supports the Council of Europe's approach and was reflected in the positions that emerged at the meeting of the European Union General Affairs Council on 13 May, which confirmed, on the one hand, the importance of supporting Croatia's membership of the Council of Europe through a more general strategy of consolidation of the democratic transition of the central European countries, and reinforcement of all the measures and instruments that can help consolidate democracy in those countries, but, on the other, the need for the Zagreb government to comply with all the requests from the Council of Europe as the guarantee of achieving full democracy in Croatia and full application of all the political and civil principles of the rule of law.
My Group was indignant about the proposal from the Assembly of the Council of Europe to admit Croatia, albeit conditionally, as a full member of the Council of Europe.
As long as full cooperation with for example the war crimes tribunal at The Hague is not established and the crisis round Mostar is not settled, Europe must not be in a hurry with its recognition of Croatia.
My Group supports the policy of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers to defer a decision about the admission of Croatia.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I should like to begin by observing that our debate today on whether or not the Council of Europe should admit Croatia as a member reflects the two sides of relations between the European Union and Croatia.
We in the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party support Croatia and its people, as well as its Parliament and Government, in this aspiration.
Like all other states of central Europe, Croatia must establish the same democratic rights and rules of play that apply in the countries of the European Union itself.
But it is precisely because we favour the early admission of Croatia to our circle of European nations that we appeal to the Croatian President and his Government to do all in their power to end the intimidation and harassment of journalists forthwith and to ensure that freedom of the press and media not only exist on paper but are fully respected in practice.
Mr President, in recent years this Parliament has pressed the governments of the Union to intervene to re-establish peace and respect for human rights in the countries of former Yugoslavia.
In these years we have never hesitated to point the finger at the Serb Republic as primarily responsible for the tragedies that have occurred, especially in Bosnia, and our resolutions have frequently defended the right of Croatia to have the territory occupied by the Serbs restored to it.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, my group appreciates the efforts the Italian presidency has made to remind the Balkan states of the principles of promotion and defence of human rights and democracy, and we also take a positive view of the decision by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to delay Croatia's membership of that important European Assembly precisely because of the clear violation of the right to free expression.
When this Parliament approved the extension of the PHARE programme to Croatia, it was unanimously made conditional on respect for democratic principles.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Green Group entirely agrees with the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers in their decision provisionally to defer acceptance of Croatia as a member of that Council.
Croatia's membership of the Council of Europe would favourably encourage a change of conduct, but in view of the sluggish process of implementation of the Dayton agreement we think accession would at the moment be premature.
Mr President, my understanding was that as a general rule our Parliament was against exclusion, but there is one area where Europe favours exclusion - the exclusion of Croatia.
They did not allow that nation to join the international Community until January 1992, when a third of its territory was occupied by the Yugoslav federal army.
Indeed, the Council of Europe is refusing to allow Croatia to join the club.
These appalling events happened not in Zagreb but in Paris.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first I should like to say that I support, as does my Group, the decision which has been taken to postpone Croatia's admission to the Council of Europe.
I consider myself a friend of Croatia, since I have lived there and in the former Yugoslavia during the hard years of the armed struggle, but I think that the message now being sent to Croatia will have a positive effect in overcoming the difficulties which still persist whilst the democratic political life of the country is returning to normal and also in the part which Croatia has played, is playing and will have to play with regard to the conflict in Bosnia.
But I should like to emphasize other aspects which have an enormous importance for the future of peace in the region and particularly in Bosnia-Herzegovina, both in relation to the electoral process in Mostar and the attitude of Croatia in general to the Republic of Bosnia.
The problem of the treatment of minorities in Croatia is serious and must be solved urgently in relation to those who have left.
But the same problem must also be solved in relation to Eastern Slavonia which is due to come under Croatian sovereignty and where a considerable portion of the Serbian population - at present 100 % - live following the expulsion by the Serbs of all the non-Serbs in that region.
That is why we as a Group take such an interest in paragraph 5 of the resolution in which the Council of Europe is requested to state what its accession policy actually is.
Mr President, there is increasing confusion in this Chamber and Parliament's credibility is evaporating fast.
Mr President, the decision to postpone admission of Croatia to the Council of Europe is important and correct.
It applies to the satirical weekly paper, Feral Tribune, against whose staff legal proceedings have been brought for criticising the president, something which is illegal under section 77 of the Croatian criminal code.
Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights stipulates that freedom of expression shall be guaranteed.
That symbolism was reinforced for us when we went to Mostar where we were told by the authorities that one of the biggest stumbling blocks to a lasting peace and fair elections in Mostar remains the Croatian community which is clearly encouraged in its defiance of Dayton by the government in Zagreb.
I support the decision taken by the Council of Europe.
We have to make it clear to all the parties in former Yugoslavia that they must adhere to the Dayton agreements and that we want to see the free movement of people which is being denied by the Croatian authorities in Bosnia.
Therefore I support this decision by the Council of Europe.
I hope it will continue to drive home its message, as will the European Union, that the Dayton accords are the basis on which there will be peace and stability in the former states of Yugoslavia in the future.
If goodwill is shown, we should be prepared to honour the decision taken by a two-thirds majority of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in other words by the national parliamentarians of our Member States.
I have made this point to explain that we agreed with the decision of the Council of Europe to ask Croatia to fulfil certain conditions before allowing it to join, not because of any punitive attitude towards Croatia, not because we want to discriminate against Croatia, but because we believe it is necessary to ask Zagreb and the Croatian government, just as other countries should be asked, not to delay achieving full democracy, and not to introduce factors that slow down or block a democratic process which should instead be pursued to completion with determination and speed.
Later we will be discussing Albania, where there is a similar problem not only of evaluating the transition, but also of deciding on a more practical and effective strategy to ensure that the transition has a positive democratic outcome.
The debate is closed.
Elections in Albania The next item is the statement by the Council on the elections in Albania.
What I need to do here is to bring you up to date with the assessment made on 29 May and to take account of the developments of the last few days to decide on the most useful approach at this stage.
The presidency of the European Union has been in constant consultation with the OESC which had its own observers in Albania, with our principal European partners, with the diplomatic representatives in Tirana, with the Albanian political parties, both in government and in opposition, and we have also kept in constant touch with the government of the United States to agree a position which follows on from last week's Euro-American statement on democratic transition in Albania.
This series of contacts has allowed us to bring together a number of points which are set out in the statement issued by the Italian presidency last Friday on behalf of the European Union.
Last Sunday the second round took place and was certainly characterized by a much more correct and peaceful climate than the first, but also by a dramatic fall in participation as a result of the opposition parties' appeal to the Albanian electorate to abstain.
In short, the completion of the first and second rounds of the election has not resolved the crisis situation in Albania.
In any case this decision - if confirmed, I repeat, because the news only broke today - about a general review by the central electoral commission could provide a framework of knowledge and information which would allow everyone, the Albanians first and foremost, but also the international community, to make a clearer and more complete assessment.
The first is that the electoral procedure is not finally completed so we must continue to monitor the situation and update our assessment in due course since our judgement may change and our final assessment may alter on the basis of the events of the next few hours and days, in particular the review of all the counts the central commission seems prepared to carry out.
Mr President, I think that in contrast to the previous item on Croatia, I am in this case a little less in agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, whom I regard as extremely cautious in his approach to and assessment of what is happening in Albania, whereas with Croatia he had such a clear point of view.
The elections in Albania were a fiasco.
We are speaking about a country that is being rent apart, about the destabilization of a country that borders on to the Balkan situation, that is next door to Kosovo, to the former republic of Yugoslavia and to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; about a situation that is pregnant with danger.
And I could continue in this vein at length.
Our problem is not to decide whether the elections were properly conducted or not, because I do not think they were properly conducted.
The problem is to find the most effective and appropriate strategy now to end this crisis.
I have in mind a specific formula, the need to identify a setting, a table, for political dialogue involving the participation of all the parties, in government and in opposition, attended by some international figures, if appropriate and if the parties think they should accept that, to find a way out of this crisis together.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, I would like to thank the members of my group, Union for Europe, for giving me two minutes more than I was allocated so that I can explain this report more fully.
To meet this challenge, the Commission submitted a medium and long term action programme focusing on three principal areas: first, improving the quality of the European transport system; secondly, integrating transport policy into the single market, by respecting and applying current standards, especially as regards competition and state aid; thirdly, strengthening the external dimension of the common transport policy.
On the basis of this programme I have set out an action plan for transport up to 2000, aimed at informing the European Parliament about the problem areas within the transport system and the options for finalizing objectives in any given sector.
Indeed, the report deals with all the problem areas brought to our attention by the European Commission and all the specific points connected with particular means of transport, and it offers a series of proposals geared to improving the system and mobility generally.
Secondly, it emphasizes the need to introduce effective European measures to achieve greater safety throughout the transport system: establishing a permanent safety observatory, applying the existing regulations, harmonizing vocational training, working conditions and hours, applying new technology, making patent medicines available on motorways and, where possible, providing better links with health and emergency services.
In that respect it links with the reports recently produced by the Committee on Transport and Tourism: the Piecyk report on the trans-European networks, the Farassino report on the driving licence, the Tamino report on combined transport, the Jarzembowski report on inspection of ships in ports, and so on.
Fifthly, and in my view very important, there is the possible spin-off for increased employment and new job opportunities resulting from more information and integration between the various regions, the likely upward trends in tourism and participation in the protection of an environment which embodies the culture and history of the European Union.
In fact, this report - which I do not consider mine but rather the product of lengthy discussion between all the members of the Committee on Transport - indicates the problems but also the solutions to the many emergencies and needs which face citizens of the Union every day.
Madam President the objectives of this action programme must be to offer basic mobility to all citizens without damaging nature and the environment.
From this definition it is clear that our current transport policies are unsustainable and need a radical shift in direction.
The Environment Committee is particularly concerned about the impact of road transport on the environment.
Madam President, I should like to say, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that the action programme presented by the Commission constitutes, in our view, an essential framework-programme which is important for achieving the objectives and priorities of the white paper on the future development of the common transport policy.
As regards the financing of the trans-European transport networks, its importance is universally recognized by us all.
We would pinpoint in particular an increase in the resources for infrastructures and we think also that special attention should be given to encouraging partnerships in the public and private sectors so that we may overcome the difficulties known to us all.
The ideas outlined in the green paper on this subject show clearly what possibilities there are and they must be followed by concrete measures at the appropriate levels as soon as possible.
Like the previous speakers, our committee is very concerned about the very cautious nature of the report, which was not wide-ranging enough taking into consideration that the common transport policy is very important for the Union.
That was a long time ago, in fact it was 18 months ago Mr Flynn first promised us this.
It is important that the Commission put some pressure on the Council to ensure there is adequate funding in this area of infrastructure.
Only yesterday the relations of the European Union with the states of central and eastern Europe were under discussion when we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and the steering committee accompanying the pan-European transport conferences welcomed a group from 17 different countries to Brussels, among whom were the parliamentary representatives of the transport committees that have been established and appointed in those countries.
I consider it very important that the Commission should be given mandates to represent the European Union in negotiations with third countries on transport matters and that this should be done more quickly than has hitherto been the case.
I believe we can only support and endorse what the President of the Commission, Mr Santer, said this afternoon about the need for us to develop a more solid financial basis.
Madam President, the European People's Party welcomes the action programme from the Commission and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission for its initiative and to congratulate our own rapporteur, Mr Parodi, on his report.
I hope the House will join me in agreeing that Britain is leading the way in Europe, not least in ensuring a level playing field with the removal of state aids but also the fitting of seat belts in coaches and mini-buses and safety at sea.
We in the European People's Party commend the report to the House, we congratulate the rapporteur and thank the Commission for this initiative.
There are already grounds for satisfaction about the approach to the project in the preamble, but there is also concern because it stands on feet of clay.
Point 87 of the motion for a resolution proposes an innovation, not exactly original but very interesting, involving the creation of new stimuli and especially obligations on the European Union, to provide incentives for participation by the private sector.
I remember Commissioner Kinnock telling us one day to convince our citizens that participating in the creation of these networks is a bargain.
Madam President, I am a little disappointed in both the Commission action programme and the report.
The Parodi report rightly mentions this.
In that connection I should like to point out three areas for attention.
Opening up the railway market and continuing construction of the trans-European networks are therefore necessary.
Thirdly, in view of the strong growth of air transport the Union will have to do its best to arrange taxation of aircraft fuel on a world scale.
The communication from the Commission envisages the line of action entitled 'taking account of the social dimension' as amounting only to continued consultation of management and labour.
But the consequences of this policy - or, to be more precise, this lack of policy - affect the whole internal market and distort competition between modes of transport.
For this reason too, as the Committee on Budgets suggested, the 14 top-priority projects for trans-European transport networks should be placed in order of urgency and common financing secured for them where more than one Member State is involved and the projects are in the general European interest.
It should also be mentioned in this context that it is absolutely essential to secure pan-European funding as soon as possible for the Brenner tunnel and its feeder lines.
The stoicism of the people living in this part of the Alps has limits that must not go on being transgressed indefinitely.
The realization of the Brenner tunnel project in particular will not only mean economic and ecological progress for the directly affected regions but will be of enormous benefit to the entire Union.
Madam President, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on a fine report.
Sea transport is our road and bridge to mainland United Kingdom and further to mainland continental Europe.
This is a very serious problem and it will not disappear.
I would like to play tribute to him tonight because after our visit to him, he ensured that we had links from Belfast and Larne and the other ports.
I must of course point out that not all objectives can be realized in the short term and that the development of the Community transport policy is a long-term operation.
It is true that the main areas of our activity are sketched out in greater detail in the action programme for the sake of clarity.
Thus the motion for a resolution asks for the drafting of a whole series of documents, an amended action programme by the autumn of 1997, every two years, starting in summer 1998, a comprehensive planning and implementation document, another white paper in 2000, a report about the suitability of the Maastricht Treaty as the basis of a new Community transport policy - all this on top of our annual programme of legislation.
Then I should like to make an observation or a reflection with regard to various critical asides on the social and employment aspects of transport policy.
I should like to thank all those who have spoken for their contribution, and once more, on behalf of Neil Kinnock, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
Mr President, this directive can be summarized in a few words.
At first reading, the European Parliament approved the Commission proposal of 16 January 1995 on the alternative plastic credit card model driving licence, making eight amendments.
Lastly, a new heading has been inserted, number 14 on page 2, to enable an issuing Member State to enter administrative information concerning a licence, for instance, the date the holder passed the driving test, or road safety.
In substance, the Council has accepted three of the European Parliament's eight first reading amendments.
Mr President, the proposal to introduce a European driving licence in the form of a plastic card of credit-card dimensions is basically a sensible and practical idea for all concerned.
The licence card is actually intended to facilitate the free movement of European citizens and to promote the mutual recognition of driving licences.
But after examining the Council's common position, I cannot help thinking that the Council wants to take systematic action to prevent any progress towards a stronger common identity within the European Union.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism has adopted four amendments for the second reading.
Mr President, I welcome the Commission proposal that the Member States be given the opportunity to introduce a model Community driving licence on 1 July 1996 in the form of a 'credit card' -type document as an alternative to the paper version.
I should like to congratulate the Council on its decision to side with Parliament in opposing the Commission proposal to limit the validity of the licence to ten years.
The introduction of a separate space in which the issuing country may make optional entries is in line with the wishes of Parliament.
I failed completely to understand why a centralized monitoring system in the form of a register of penalty points should be introduced in connection with driving licences.
Parliament will have to request immediate negotiations between the bodies concerned in order to correct the directive in this respect.
Mr President, with the prospect of more people moving around the European Union more freely, my Group and I welcome the harmonisation of driving licences.
This proposal from the Commission, with the sensible amendments from the rapporteur, will take the harmonisation process forward by requiring a common code system for conditions under which any driver is authorised to use a vehicle.
In the European Union we have already had mutual recognition of driving licences for some time now.
As well as codifying conditions under which the owner can drive, the micro-chip could store useful information as suggested already concerning the willingness to donate organs, as well as medical requirements and needs of the driver himself.
So let us regard this proposal as a first step in the right direction, though not perhaps the last.
Every citizen of the EU who lives for more than three months in another Member State will come to appreciate the advantages offered by this Directive.
In the same way, Member States will be able to switch in due course from paper licences to the credit-card format and will do so secure in the knowledge that the necessary interoperability of the 'credit-card' -style driving licence is guaranteed in all Member States.
And from a parliamentary point of view, we too can take pleasure in the fact that some of the results of our work are reflected in the common position.
Mr President, let us begin by heartily congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Farassino, on his report.
I am glad to note that in the Council's common position Parliament's amendments adopted in first reading and accepted and approved by the Commission at the time have been included.
But I thank Parliament for giving the Commission its support at first reading.
Amendment No 3 aims at deleting the words 'European Communities model' on the licence.
Naturally I can entirely agree that the incorporation of a microchip in the driving licence provides opportunities for greater flexibility of use, increased security and reduced risk of forgery.
However, that amendment cannot be included in the text because it would anticipate the conclusions of the working group which the Commission is to set up to produce a report on the consequences of incorporating a microchip or a similar device in the driving licence.
That will be dealt with later, but all in good time.
The debate is closed.
The intention is to create a legal guarantee of free access by transport undertakings in the Community Member States to inland waterway transport.
The Commission considers that, since Austria joined the Union, a new arrangement is required.
In this area, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, in a judgment of 22 May 1985, specified that, where inland waterways were concerned, the Council should within an appropriate period free access to the inland waterways transport market of any discrimination based on nationality.
The common position introduced only minor amendments, mainly editorial in nature, stressing however the fact that the owner of a vessel used for transport between Member States and in transit between those States must be under the flag of a Member State and have its home port in one of those States.
This proposal has therefore been adopted unanimously by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the second reading.
It is therefore this report, which poses no particular difficulties, that I have the honour of presenting today to be voted upon in this House.
Mr President, I thank this House, and especially the rapporteur, for the exceptionally positive approach that has been adopted towards the common position of the Council on the basis of the Commission proposal.
It seems to me that this is an important step towards a properly integrated Community inland waterways market.
The debate is closed.
We in this House have debated the questions of competitiveness, development and employment on very many occasions, but only rarely have we focused on the importance of innovation in the pursuit of those three objectives.
The innovation process is more complicated than that, and we in the European Union should ask ourselves whether the existing research and development policies and structures are based on an up-to-date understanding of the subject.
Secondly, the furthering of the mobility of researchers as an important means of diffusion of innovation via the strengthening of links between the INNOVATION programme and Activity Four of the fourth framework programme.
One of Europe's main weaknesses, in fact, lies in a failure to translate technological research results and technical know-how into commercial success, chiefly because of the ineffectiveness of the financing system.
And I believe that the effectiveness of the Union's research and technology policy demands the promotion of collaboration and coordination via integrated strategic diffusion of the results of research and technological development.
Innovation is the lifeblood of the new global economy and our only hope for survival in a hostile economic environment.
Above all, we have to bridge the gulf between business and science, not only in terms of disseminating information but in building a working partnership between innovators and industry.
The Commission's proposals and the recommendations in this report could kick-start this process.
The relationship between society and innovation is a symbiotic one.
Innovations have played a large part in the treatment of disease, conditions for the disabled, improving the environment, improving working conditions for people on the production line and in creating employment in thinly populated areas.
We must also face the fact that the evidence is clear that it is not a failure in research which is the problem but the failure to apply the research to products and processes.
In fact, as we know, within the current fourth programme innovation is a fully-fledged programme in its own right.
The contribution which R &amp; D will make to economic growth and employment in the Community in the next twenty years will depend little on future R &amp; D.
Actions at Community level will be useless unless there is a strong link with regional and local technology and innovation centres.
The big idea concept will not solve our problems.
In backing this report, the Socialist Group calls on the Commission to incorporate the ideas which have been expressed in the resolution and in the explanatory statement into the action plan which we await with keen interest.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also see this piece of work, the Green Paper on innovation, for which I express my special thanks to the Commission, as an important contribution to the urgent and intensive discussion on the preservation and securing of jobs.
This problem is currently the main concern of the European Union.
Secondly, in the European Union we have 15 research policies, many of which are formulated in isolation.
Mr President, Commissioner Cresson, I cannot begin to speak about technological innovation today without mentioning the event which was unfortunately on the front pages of many of this morning's newspapers: the loss of Ariane V.
I recognize the potential of this approach and I am sure we will continue the debate and exchange of views with Commissioner Cresson when it comes to refinancing the Fourth Framework Programme.
The most important message of the green paper is that the Commission, like a number of Member States, is extending technological policy into innovation policy.
The development of generic technologies useful for many sectors can actually increase the competitive capacity of the whole European Union.
Innovation policy including technology policy needs to be developed and implemented at national level unless the extent of the problem or of the scale is of such a nature as to require an approach at European level.
Besides, small- and medium-sized businesses are not a homogeneous group of undertakings but an extremely diverse group.
The percentage of success for Europe as a whole is only 20 %.
My Group hopes that a fundamentally different approach to the problems of innovation will lead to a new and effective policy with, as its aim, wide scope for innovative firms and new opportunities for employment.
Mr President, the Commission's Green Paper on innovation shows an awareness of the importance of the relationship between innovation and society, but in outlining the innovation strategy it fails to deal, for example, with the relationship between innovation policy and environmental policy, nor does it discuss innovation policy in relation to social policy and labour market issues.
Research into the social impact of innovations should therefore form a part of innovation policy.
My final amendment is aimed at the inclusion of young people too in a European network, whereas the committee today only proposes women.
It is also important to be aware of the need to promote initial and advanced training in this domain.
Innovation in the field of human resources must take place through the development of the existing programmes, such as Socrates, Leonardo and TACIS.
I note that the comments and suggestions made by Parliament generally endorse those expressed during the consultation process, and I also observe that Parliament rightly insisted on the need to take the social aspect of innovation into consideration, in order to take account of the needs and expectations of our fellow citizens and involve the workers in the process of innovation.
Regarding the creation of an Innovation Task Force, it is clear that - whether or not it be in the form of a task force - the fifth Framework Programme will have to ensure greater coordination between specific programmes and with the Member States.
The debate centred on the Green Paper has highlighted the need for deeper knowledge of innovation and the present shortcomings in this area.
The Commission will in future be preparing a regular report on innovation in Europe and on the policies that support it, drawing on completely reliable indicators.
Parliament recommends improving the orientation of research.
I shall come back in due course to certain observations in this chapter, especially those regarding the social aspects of innovation and the task forces.
The fourth concern expressed in this chapter is support for the various forms of cooperation between the innovation actors.
This recommendation by Parliament reflects the perception, shared by the Commission, that innovation is an interactive process which feeds on the relations between undertakings and research centres or support bodies, including financial bodies, as well as between the undertakings themselves.
Parliament expresses a wish for improved cooperation and coordination between national and Community research policies.
This coordination exercise was systematically launched in the fourth Framework Programme, since every programme committee is required to devote a proportion of its working time to it each year.
This first stage relates to the pooling of information on existing policies and instruments.
Regarding the economic and financial considerations for innovation, in other words the problems of finance and taxation, the report recommends a review of the impact of taxation policies on innovation, and concerted action in this area, and in the area of finance.
The review recommended by Parliament, and previously proposed in the Green Paper, is one of the measures whose feasibility is being examined by the Commission.
First, encouraging investment in risk capital and equity, especially for the high-growth innovative undertakings which represent an important source of new job creation.
All the necessary conditions for the success of such markets, such as the federation of new markets or the ASDAQs, need to be in place.
Thirdly, the conditions for access to long-term loans needs to be improved.
Finally, the interfaces between technological innovation and the financial world need to be improved.
This idea, already carried out in Belgium and the Netherlands, could if successful be adopted by other countries.
The Commission also has to ensure that the existing instruments are fully utilized.
And a seminar on the subject has been arranged for 25 June.
Regarding intellectual property rights, I have duly noted the fact that Parliament is expressing a desire to see the cost of such rights and the time necessary to obtain them reduced, but that it also mentions the need for variable periods of protection according to product type in order to maintain competition from generic products.
The Community Patent Convention has not yet been ratified, despite the agreement concluded in 1989.
Another point that was mentioned, and an important point, concerns the need to encourage innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises.
Many of them simply want to improve their products or processes by using the most appropriate new technologies, without necessarily having the desire or ability to conduct independent research.
A number of measures are being considered, such as those to merge, within a single horizontal programme, the activities aimed at the SMEs - in other words, primarily technological stimulation schemes - and the Innovation programme, which would strengthen their cohesion and make it possible to offer the SMEs a single innovation interface within the Framework Programme.
The Commission has already taken action along these lines: first by virtue of the Community initiatives or Article 10 of the ERDF, for which it is mainly responsible; and secondly by virtue of the definition of the Community support frameworks which, in a way, are a general charter negotiated between the Member States and the Commission to define the purposes for which the structural funds should be used.
The mid-term revision of these Community support frameworks, currently covering the period 1994-1999, can provide an opportunity to emphasize this orientation.
Regarding the social and training aspects of innovation, I have duly noted that Parliament recommends that the social dimension of innovation should be taken into consideration, both in order to steer the broad guidelines and evaluation of policies and to emphasize the necessary communication with the public and the educational role of television, consideration for the consumer, worker information and participation, and the training of the social partners in taking due account of innovation.
The Commission entirely agrees with Parliament regarding the need to take account of the social dimension in innovation policies.
I myself wanted the final socioeconomic research programme to include a section on training and one on exclusion.
It must therefore play the greatest possible part in the acquisition of skills, such as creativity, a taste for experiment, and the aptitude for communication and teamwork.
Technical education and vocational training must not be devalued, but the acquisition of a basic general culture is essential to facilitate the lasting suitability for new functions which innovation requires.
A great many proposals on this subject are included in the White Paper on Education and Training.
The implementation of the Socrates and Leonardo programmes will incorporate specific measures to encourage innovation.
That is why, together with my colleague Martin Bangemann, I launched the initiative entitled 'Learning in the information society' .
As for the establishment of innovation training courses for the social partners, this is a field to be explored in due course within the Leonardo and Socrates programmes, on the basis of successful national experience in this field.
I have noted that Parliament regrets the insufficient attention paid to innovative sectors such as the information society, biotechnology and environmental technologies.
The debate is closed.
It started off in 1991 under the second framework programme.
The report before us today is an evaluation of the EURET programme prepared by a panel of five independent specialists.
The way in which the evaluation of the EURET programme has been approached is not acceptable to your rapporteur.
It would have been possible to start with the evaluation before all projects had been wholly completed.
The final report on the EURET programme was drawn up only after the specific transport programme in the fourth framework programme had been approved.
According to the panel's recommendations the Commission needs to take appropriate steps to arrive at joint or at least coherent aims with regard to research and technological policy and the common transport policy.
The 1995 external monitoring report also calls on the Commission for a more specific vision in the field of transport.
The fourth framework programme is directed particularly to transport efficiency and only marginally to prevention and changes in modal distribution.
Research can make an important contribution to the development of environment-friendly technology in the transport sector.
In 1994 when the period envisaged had expired, a further ECU 8 million was spent on extra appropriations in order to ensure that a number of projects within EURET were continued.
But the reverse side of the coin is the project which we are discussing at the moment on the evaluation of a series of programmes related to transport.
I hope there will be no repetition of this and that studies on transport will nevertheless continue to be an important feature of subjects for research.
The Euret programme has replaced the Union's original research programme in the transport sector.
In point 2 of the motion for a resolution, it is stated that the conclusions of the evaluation of the Euret programme could not be taken into consideration in the transport research programme because of poor synchronization between the timetable of this new programme and the timetable of the evaluation.
The first period for submitting proposals for the new programme in fact ended on 15 March 1995.
In the adoption decision, it is clearly stipulated that the evaluation reports must be available and disclosed to the European Parliament before the Commission presents its proposal for the fifth Framework Programme.
The question of the coordination and complementarity of the European and national efforts, mentioned in sections 5 and 6, also has to be considered in a qualified manner.
As to the problem of administrative expenditure, mentioned in section 13 of the motion for a resolution, it must be considered in the light of all the different aspects.
But the programme was a small-scale one and, as you know, there are fixed costs that cannot be reduced.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is being presented on an evening when we have just discussed the excellent report by my colleague Mr Argyros, and my own report is naturally complementary to his.
Contacts were made haphazardly, as it were, between the European Union, especially the Commission, and its Permanent Representations in third countries.
I believe a distinction should be made between the sharing of knowledge on the one hand and the conquest of new market shares on the other, thanks to the development of new classes of products through technological innovation, research and development.
It seems to me necessary to identify major global projects designed to improve the overall state of the European Union, the Member States and the associated third countries, major targeted projects, research and development in respect of high-technology products intended to improve industrial production or consumer products, and then, on the other hand, research and development in respect of high value-added, innovative products, as is the case in particular with agri-foodstuff products.
The European Union also needs to be able to develop, together with third countries, a megascience in the field of particle physics, as is already happening at CERN in Geneva, and in the observation of the universe.
Finally, the Commissioner, thank God, improved this report verbally this afternoon, or just now, by talking about the Argyros report and stressing the need to improve the protection of intellectual and industrial property, and we welcome that.
After all, this is a real cause for concern, because in order for information to be able to pass between the European Union and third countries it is necessary to be able to define agreements regarding the protection of industrial and intellectual property.
In addition, we need to develop major transverse projects - that is our committee's opinion - on energy production, so as to improve the energy efficiency of transport, new information and communication technologies, environmental protection and climatology.
Also, one point that has not been touched upon either in the communication on innovation or in the Commission communication on cooperation with third countries is scientific and technical surveillance.
In conclusion, Mr President, it is important to make a distinction between countries which are candidates to join the European Union and qualify for association agreements, the industrialized countries which qualify for cooperation agreements, and developing countries which qualify for assistance agreements.
There are the countries applying for membership, where the intention is to promote a European model of free market development; the neighbouring Mediterranean countries, where improvements in quality of life and sustainable development are sought; other third countries, including technologically advanced countries, typically our competitors; developing countries, some already competing, others needing assistance.
Today the European Union is opening its Fourth Framework Programme to all European businesses, but the definition of a European business is not always very clear, and it is not always the most appropriate definition or the best adapted to stated policy.
His contribution helped us to identify the needs of the developing countries.
There is an increasing demand for cooperation on the part of the developing countries because of their awareness of the fundamental importance of being involved in the rapidly increasing innovation that is taking place in research and technological development.
Some of the areas of specific interest that have to be addressed include food supply, health and environmental protection and energy issues.
The need to strengthen cooperation between developing countries is urgent as underlined by the alarming report from the World Health Organisation on the increasing spread of epidemics and resurgence of diseases in new, resistant forms.
A global emergency has been declared by the World Health Organisation on tuberculosis, which has killed millions of people in recent years.
According to the Food and Agricultural Organisation, 44 out of 52 African countries are presently threatened by severe food shortages.
The Development Committee was very happy to commend this report, as do I here tonight.
What I mean to say is that it is extremely important for us to develop, nurture and intensify a dialogue between the various cultures on values, on basic attitudes.
Even before there was any mention of an information society the universities already had EUARN (European Academic Research Network).
Now all European national research networks, associated in DANTE, have applied for a project TEN 34 which aims at linking all these networks by means of 34 megabyte optical fibre cables.
In the Union alone there are today 340 tonnes of plutonium, which makes the resolution of this issue of the utmost importance.
Mr President, the two reports we have dealt with this evening - the Argyros report and the Pompidou report - are very closely interrelated.
That brings us to the question of intellectual property.
But we also need compatibility between all the factors associated with venture capital and with mixed public/private funding.
Parliament has always shown a special interest in this question, and has undertaken various initiatives in this field.
This report and this motion for a resolution are a logical continuation of those efforts.
In its communication of last October, the Commission tried to establish, for the first time, a general framework of thought and action regarding the Union's international activities in scientific and technological cooperation and to launch a debate on this subject between the institutions.
Overall, then, the Commission can only express its agreement.
The resolution calls on the Commission to specify the arrangements for cooperation, by distinguishing between the various types of collaboration and the major categories of countries.
Finally, the resolution rightly emphasizes the need for closer cooperation between the activities of the Union and those of its Member States in this field.
The debate is closed.
After unanimous approval by Parliament at first reading the Council forwarded the common position, albeit with some delay, which took up fully, substantially or partially a large number of the European Parliament's amendments included by the Commission in its modified proposal.
On the financial side, while not accepting the doubling of funds that Parliament voted for, the common position does provide for a review of the reference figure in 1997, recognizing that the interest shown in the LIFE programme is disproportionate to the available budget.
So while appreciating the fact that Parliament's work was well received by the Commission and the Council, it is considered essential to table some amendments to reinstate the reference to rivers which flow into coastal areas and to the sustainable management of the wetlands created by such rivers; to reinstate the reference to the protection of water resources and water management to be provided for as part of the preparatory activities; to point out that the 3 % intended for assessment and support for activities must also be available for use with the remaining part of the first stage; to specify more clearly the assessment and selection procedure for innovative projects, whereas it is already clearly established that for LIFE-nature activities, reference must be made to the 'Habitats' directive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of LIFE is to help develop and implement the environmental policy and environmental legislation of the European Union, especially in relation to the impact of industrial activity and the protection of nature, but also in the context of cooperation with third countries, particularly those of the Mediterranean Basin and of central and eastern Europe.
The common position on the Directive defines the term 'best available technology' , which means that an agreed basis for the use of the term is already in place.
Even though it does not cover every aspect of the environment to the extent we should like, Community policy has encouraged in all Member States the development of programmes and projects aimed at environmental protection and consequently at improving the quality of life in the European Union.
The proposal for a Council regulation on the establishment of a financial instrument for the environment - the LIFE programme - which we support, forms part of this policy.
I should like to believe that the Member States will take proper advantage of all the aid this regulation offers them.
And as regards particularly the ultraperipheral areas of Portugal - the Azores and Madeira - it is to be hoped that above all in the protection and rational management of coastal areas, in the protection and management of water resources (including waste or contaminated water treatment), in the reduction of toxic and dangerous residues and in all actions relating to the protection of nature, with special emphasis both on the preservation of the typical forest, exceptional and valuable - the laurisilva - or its restoration, and in other eco-systems, biotopes and species endemic to those islands, it will be possible to follow firmly and wisely the ways which are being opened up or enlarged as a result of the Community instruments fortunately being produced in the sphere of the environment.
ECU 600 million had almost been voted by the Council.
I could mention many: Doñana, las Tablas de Daimiel, Santoña and so on.
On the other hand Amendment No 5 proposes more funds.
The problem always lies in the scant resources allocated for dealing with a programme like Nature 2000.
DG XI itself has sent us today a very interesting bulletin, no 1, in which it is clearly shown how many countries there are which have still not started to designate their special areas for conservation.
So it seems to us that this instrument in the first place needs to be effective and in the second place to prevent the disasters already occurring in fauna, flora and habitats which will wipe them out before the year 2000.
The only place in which it lived was the Risco de Zamara in the Island of Lanzarote.
The proposed budget of ECU 450 million for the entire second stage of LIFE is, however, totally insufficient, especially if the intention is to broaden the scope of the instrument.
They should promote the development and application of the most useful technology available.
Mr President, first of all I should like to say that the Commission much appreciates Parliament's speedy second reading of the Council's common position.
The amendment concerns an increase in the LIFE budget to ECU 600 million and in that connection I can only confirm that it was discussed at length in the Council and reiterate the Commission's usual view as regards form and content.
At the present time therefore it is impossible to accept the idea of increasing the LIFE budget even though the ECU 600 million may be regarded as a compromise between the amount of ECU 800 million proposed in first reading and the ECU 450 million entered in the common position, which the Council decided to accept until the further assessment in 1997.
The debate is closed.
