Mrs Lindholm, I think your comment is justified.
We have now got an agreement, at least in the Rules Committee, across the House with respect to this whole plethora of annual reports and it means that we have a clearly laid down procedure that we can follow in future and we will not have the constant debate about what route, what institutional route, a particular report should follow.
If that is so I would welcome it because I think that it is not merely the function of the Rules of Procedure to provide a minimum framework, a simply reductionist approach to the rules, but to encourage the right and rational outcomes.
It turns out, however, that there is a difference between, let us say, those annual reports that are presented by the institutions as required by the Treaty and the other annual reports.
In his report, I think the rapporteur counted 25 different annual reports which are dealt with in depth in this Parliament, which means that we can handle two or three annual reports at most in each part-session.
I also think there is a link between these large volumes of opinions which are generated on annual reports and the low turnout at voting in our Parliament.
The Institutional Committee then drafts a report on this report, and we end up debating a year and a half later the events of a year and a half before on the basis of a report on a report.
This change to the Rules of Procedure will enable us to get rid of this sort of nonsense, and where we do not have a very good reason for having a special report on a report, or a special debate on a report, we will no longer need to do so.
Rather, it is an attempt to try to bring into line the proper workings of this Parliament, to give more time for this House and this Chamber to respond more rapidly to the ever-changing political events that are taking place.
I would go even further and say that in other annual reports that have come before this Parliament, not only are we dealing with a report which may be two years old but we are also regurgitating and recycling information that was put in an annual report three or four years ago, and yet we feel that it all has to be included again each year, year on end.
I also wish to inform Members that, because of the changes taking place in the Treaty of Amsterdam in the way this House operates, we will be dealing with more reports from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities in this Parliament that will be far more wide-ranging and innovative in changing the way this Parliament operates.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
Modification of Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure The next item is the report (A4-0111/98) by Mr Dell'Alba, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on amending Rule 141 on subcommittees.
Mr President, I am sorry I was not able to help with a possible reversal of the order of the two reports.
This has led to practical difficulties in application, at the level of the political groups.
Consequently, there is widespread interest, not only among the members of the main committee - in this case the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy - but also in the other committees represented in the Subcommittee on Human Rights.
I am not entirely sure that, if we adopt it as it is, it will have the effects that Mr Ford fears.
Firstly, it reinforces the links between a subcommittee and the main committee by stipulating that all the full members must also belong to the main committee.
That would mean that someone who was not a member of the main committee could present a report on that committee's behalf.
With the agreement of the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, I would therefore like to propose that it should be recorded in the Minutes that these rules come into force after the summer recess, on Monday 14 September, to allow us to adapt to the situation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
To allow my colleagues to appreciate this report, we agreed that no vote would be taken until a later date.
The main conclusion of the High Level Panel is that, in general terms, the legal framework for free movement within our Union is in place.
In order to iron out all these difficulties, the High Level Panel has made 80 recommendations which my committee and I have considered.
Our Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs wanted to take the Treaty of Amsterdam into account by looking ahead to the integration of the Schengen acquis into the community framework and putting the majority vote into perspective.
We felt it necessary to define the free movement of people in a much wider sense than had previously been envisaged.
The right to free movement is not only a fundamental right, but a right associated with nationality.
For it to be effective, free movement must also assist family reunification with children and dependent older relatives as well as non-dependent older relatives, although I think this last group should enjoy the right to free movement in their own right.
As Mrs Schaffner said, this is of course a problem which we in this Parliament have been aware of for years.
Finally, I would like to point out that there is an error in the Swedish version when it comes to the national ombudsmen's duties, but this does not apply to the other language versions.
Free movement involves the social rights and family status of EU citizens.
This trend is expressed, for example, in paragraphs 9 and 11 of our opinion, and also goes against the vote of the Group of the European People's Party.
The important results of this work have been favourably received and affect European citizens and workers alike.
Each and every citizen has the right to establish him or herself in another Member State of the European Union, to take part in economic activities, to be protected against all forms of discrimination based on nationality, and to enjoy the same social, family and cultural status.
The term "freedom of movement' in the Maastricht Treaty concerns people being allowed to exist with equal rights, as well as capital, services and goods.
However, I do not wish to deny the Veil report my appreciation, and I want to make it clear that we were pleased to note the extent to which freedom of movement has already become a reality in Europe, in law and in fact.
The first and most fundamental finding of this report is that we have considerable freedom of movement, to the benefit of all citizens of the European Union.
Of course, there are problems.
Under the Treaty, there is indeed a distinction between third country nationals and citizens of the Union.
Thank you, Mr Nassauer.
If we want to build an integrated Europe, but one which both shows solidarity and is open to the social and cultural contributions of other civilizations, we must also take care to improve and increase the transparency of the legal status of nationals from third countries.
In order to have a true citizenship which takes account of people from third countries, the procedures for granting visas must be improved, there must be better information and openness in these procedures, and the right to family reunification must be extended and strengthened, while always ensuring respect for fundamental rights and the right to dignified treatment and privacy.
In this respect, it is also essential to do away with unequal treatment between EU citizens and nationals of third countries, which exists because of certain national laws on aliens.
But despite the report's very good, detailed explanatory section, it is impossible to relate Mrs Schaffner's report to the High Level Panel document, as this is only available in French.
Mrs Schaffner makes a clear distinction between EU citizens and those of non-Member States.
Mr President, the Schaffner report is a good report and the usual congratulations must make way for genuine thanks for the quality of this work.
Scandalous because the Treaties imposed the establishment of true freedom of movement as of 31 December 1992 and it is now 1998.
And scandalous because the governments of the Member States continue to drag their feet when it comes to implementing that freedom which is most important in the eyes of our fellow citizens.
The Council is the main institution responsible for this resistance.
The Commission itself uses a great deal of restraint when applying its right to take action against Member States who are in default.
The proposal to hand over responsibility for the free movement of persons to a single Commissioner is in the same spirit and should be actively supported.
In paragraph 23, it mentions that workers who are citizens of third countries do not enjoy the same freedom of movement as EU citizens.
We must arrive at a situation in which anyone legally residing and working in the territory of a Member State of the Union is entitled to do so in any other Member State.
As I am in the fortunate position of speaking and writing French, I have been able to understand the basic report and can inform my colleagues that this text is totally without bias and hence sits very well with all the rest of the literature on the subject.
Similarly, the report painstakingly avoids confusing the freedom of movement of European citizens with that of citizens of third countries, a mistake which is all too easily made in our circles.
Better still, it emphasizes the fact that the right to free movement of European citizens, as set out in the Treaty, should not necessarily be taken to imply the right to move about or stay without completing all the specific formalities.
Finally, the High Level Panel has burst yet another bubble by explaining that the free movement of citizens of Member States does not mean that they should necessarily enjoy the same rights everywhere.
On the contrary, each Member State should be able to retain a certain number of specific laws and the situation should not arise in which, in order to simplify the lives of 5.5 million people voluntarily living outside their own country, they complicate the lives of 360 million other Europeans who live at home and ask for nothing.
Under no circumstances can we allow a situation in which public office might be threatened where national preference still prevails.
In France, as in nearly all the other European countries, public office is reserved for nationals, and that is how it should remain.
The report also proposes a more flexible interpretation of the rules governing family reunification.
But it also states that we are entitled to take up employment in one country and live in another country, for example like transfrontier workers, who live in one country and have insurance in another.
I come from the Aachen border region, and I am aware of all these problems and the difficulties which exist.
I welcome the fact that we are tackling this problem and that much of it is addressed in the Veil report.
Suppose we now consider those people who do not have a European Union passport, or who have not changed their nationality, whether consciously or unconsciously, perhaps for the same reasons as myself, but have lived here for 30 years.
You could say they have done their bit, and now they are out on their own.
I hope our amendments are accepted, because that would then also let us show the Member States where we are heading at the start of the 21st century, namely towards a common Europe, where all citizens have the same rights and the same opportunities to cooperate in building this Europe, irrespective of nationality.
Mr President, it is not very often that, in order to rightly praise the work of a rapporteur, I can agree with the words of Mr Schulz.
Mr Schulz has said the report is "Maastrichtian' .
It is in line with the text of the Treaty in force and I am therefore in favour of it.
Mr President, I agree with many of the points raised so far, so allow me to look at two more general points which I believe are relevant.
Mr Pradier, in fact the fourth freedom still remains to be developed, but we must not forget that one of the great successes of the Maastricht Treaty is that through Article 8 it bestows a political nature upon this fourth freedom, this free movement of persons and, if that is the case, it must also be the derived law.
Of course, from now on, the Amsterdam Treaty presents us with a challenge: incorporating into the acquis communautaire that which up until now has been, as I said, the frontier territory of the third pillar, in particular the free movement of persons.
These rights are inseparable from EU citizenship, as are the other rights contained in paragraphs b), c) and d) of Article 8.
However, in the second report on citizenship, which is being debated in Parliament at this moment, the Commission only makes an ambiguous statement: that it would be logical if Articles 8 and 8A together generated rights relating to entrance and residence.
Nevertheless, in the last analysis it resorts to the legal bases of Articles 49, 54, 56 and 6 of the Treaty.
In my view, these are the fundamental challenges which must be developed, from now on and with the Amsterdam Treaty in hand.
But after this debate I no longer harbour any illusions about the attitude of some of the political groups in this Parliament.
Mr President, to the citizen, freedom of movement within the Union is perhaps the most concrete expression of what Europe means.
Ordinary Swedish workers will have to keep on living with income tax at over 50 %, while at the same time, well-trained, highly mobile workers get tax relief - and this, according to my information, with the support of the Commission, which is thus directly supporting tax dumping for localizing businesses.
Mr President, may I say at the outset that I am speaking on behalf not of only the Socialist Group but also and particularly the British Labour Members who are very strongly in support of the proposals contained in, and the objectives of, the Simone Veil High Level Panel.
Before I conclude I must just say that there are three points in the report that are particularly difficult for the British Labour Members, namely recitals A and L and paragraph 1.
I think the implications of the Amsterdam agreement must be taken into account in this matter and we would have to vote against those particular points, though I hope we will not need to oppose the full report.
This single market also involves new freedoms and opportunities for citizens in their roles as employees, consumers or members of a family.
Nevertheless, we must be aware of the fact that there are still many difficulties to be faced in order to achieve the complete freedom of movement which should have been possible since 1993.
The general conclusion is that the existing legislation is adequate.
Finally, I would like to emphasize the measures presented in the field of education.
Ladies and gentlemen, the construction of a common educational territory is, in my opinion, the most important support needed in order to achieve our ultimate objective, the building of an area of true freedom and security within the European Union, towards which we must all strive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Schaffner's report on the report on the free movement of persons produced by the High Level Panel chaired by Simone Veil.
The High Level Panel concludes that legislation on the free movement of persons already largely exists, and that most problems can be identified and solved without the legislation being amended.
The aim here is that the legislation covering freedom of movement in the single market should also be applied in practice by all our civil servants.
The other initiative I would like to mention is a plan of action for the free movement of employees, which the Commission of course adopted in November 1997, and which also affects some of the recommendations from the High Level Panel.
The second proposal made by the High Level Panel will be found in the Amsterdam Treaty.
On this point, the Commission is working to implement these amendments to the Treaty in the shape of practical policies as quickly as possible.
I believe both the High Level Panel's report and the Schaffner report provide a good basis for further discussion on what concrete action is needed to achieve real freedom of movement for the citizens of Europe.
Thank you very much, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
I have absolutely no objection if these reports are discussed on Thursday afternoon or Friday morning.
Mr President, I simply wish to confirm what I requested during the debate: that this regulation should come into force on 14 September, so as to give the subcommittees concerned time to adapt to these new regulations. (Parliament adopted the decision) Mr President, I would ask for a revision to be made of the translations in the different language versions, in particular the German version, where I have noted that certain translations could give rise to misunderstandings.
Before the vote on paragraph 8 Mr President, before you call a vote on compromise Amendment No 22, I would like to intervene regarding paragraph 8 in its entirety.
If adopted, this amendment will replace two amendments: Amendment No 11 by the Group of the European United Left and Amendment No 19 by the Europe of Nations Group.
I wanted to say that I am quite prepared to remove the addition of our Amendment No 19, but could we vote separately on the words Amendment No 19 was aiming to delete, in other words, the sixth indent of paragraph 8A - ' the possible incorporation of the EDF into the community budget' ?
Should that not be the case, the resources will remain in the reserve fund, to make it clear to those who must pass a resolution on this in the Council that this opinion is not just one for the wastepaper bin, but that it must be adopted into the directive as we have discussed it here.
We must push this through, in the interests not only of Parliament, but also of the European Union as a whole, so that our aid in Bosnia-Herzegovina can finally be effective and we can catch up with the Americans.
I am convinced that there will be time now before a final decision is taken in Council for discussions to continue.
Mr de Vries, we have just put the original text of Annex 2(8) to the vote.
After the vote on Annex 3 Mr President, I would like to inform you that I am present in the Chamber, I am voting and my machine is voting.
Thank you very much, Mr Falconer.
Mr Falconer, I am sure the Members of this House do not need to be told in advance whether or not there are any roll-call votes in order to fulfil their duty.
Before the vote on Amendment No 5 Mr President, as the objectives of the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the Party of European Socialists accommodate each other very well, we also agree with the amendment of the Socialist Group if they agree to insert the word 'democratic' before the word 'Russia' .
The European Parliament report on the guidelines for the forthcoming 1999 budget is written in diplomatic language and is at pains to mask the two major contradictions which need to be addressed, that of the Structural Funds and that of the single currency, not to mention the question of enlargement which will come later.
On the subject of Structural Funds, the application of the 1993-1999 financial forecasts, approved by the 1992 Edinburgh Summit, would, given the late payments, give the 1999 budget a figure of 1.325 % of Community GNP in credit commitments and 1.235 % in payment credits, in other words considerably above the ceiling of 1.10 % allocated in January during the orientation debate (which in turn was lower than the maximum of 1.27 % allocated in Edinburgh).
This progression raises the question of Structural Fund inflation and the fund's usefulness, which has already been highlighted by my group in a recent study entitled 'Welfare Europe or Europe of the Nations' .
It also raises the question of the legal nature of the interinstitutional agreements such as Edinburgh which claim to definitively link Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
It is quite clear that these agreements do not have the status of a Treaty and that the Council in particular still has the right to change its mind when circumstances dictate.
The second problem concerns the implementation of the single currency.
This guideline will go against Member States' wishes to continue to reduce their public deficits in the years to come (as the figure of 3 % is a ceiling, not an ideal level), and in a wider sense to keep Community expenditure within reasonable limits.
The resolution of the European Parliament suggests that this will come to nothing, and that is perhaps true since the full effects of the new system will not be felt immediately.
The Commission has set out the guidelines for the pre-draft of the budget by highlighting the need to adopt a strict budget in order to alleviate the tasks expected of Member States preparing for EMU.
The budget is intended to increase by 3 % whilst monetary depreciation in the Member States stands at 1.8 % on average.
In real terms, the increase in the budget should therefore be of the order of 1.2 %.
However, when the principal budget items are analyzed, the wide range of the changes becomes clear: namely +8 % for the Structural Funds, +3 % for the programmes aimed at the central and eastern European and Mediterranean countries, +3 % for internal policies and 0 % for the agricultural budget.
Our group is asking for an increase in agricultural spending in 1999 of an amount equivalent to that put forward in the pre-draft of the budget and in the draft of the 1998 budget.
It is important to reiterate that the final 1998 budget was reduced by ECU 550 million.
An examination of the agricultural proposals of the Santer Package, presented to us on 18 March last, raises a great many questions about the future of the CAP.
This situation cannot be tolerated!
Paradoxically, with the ECU 150 million adopted at the Luxembourg Summit, employment looks like the poor relation in the European budget.
In truth, only simple cosmetic measures have been taken.
There are many of us who fight for this - whether blood donors like myself or not - and who support these proposals.
I would like to thank and congratulate Professor Cabrol on his report on the Council's recommendation concerning the admissibility of blood and plasma donors and the tests carried out on blood donor samples in the European Union.
This text should pave the way for achieving the highest level of safety.
The donor exclusion criteria which should prevail throughout Community territory, as set out in Annex 5 - with the exception of the criteria excluding homosexual men which seemed to me to be wholly discriminatory - will help to provide this level of safety, which each citizen has a right to expect.
Furthermore, the setting up of a single donor registration and identification system common to all the Member States certainly constitutes a step forward.
It might seem astonishing that a Member should vote against a report whose goals he shares.
Above all, section 5 of the explanatory statement, recitals 21 and 25, and paragraph 5 of the recommendation of Annex 2 of this text are completely unacceptable when taken together.
It emerges that from the Council's point of view, the following are excluded from giving blood and should possibly be filed as such: homosexual men; persons who have had sexual relations in Africa; and persons who have been sexually active in another country - to be specified - other than Africa.
What emerges from these proposals is that for the pseudo-scientists who drew up this text, the threat posed by a person cannot be attributed to risky behaviour - which is something that everybody could understand and accept - but to their sexual orientation, the place where they live and their race.
The European Parliament would be doing itself a service by refusing such proposals a great deal more energetically than has the rapporteur.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of Mr Cabrol's report.
Article 129 of the Amsterdam Treaty introduces a high level of health protection in Community policy, including measures aimed at setting high standards with regard to quality and safety of organs and substances of human origin, blood and plasma.
The Cabrol report of course addresses a major problem, namely that of the safety of the supply of blood donations in Europe.
I have therefore voted against this report.
I would like to congratulate our colleague, Professor Cabrol, on his report on the Council's recommendation concerning the admissibility of blood and plasma donors and on the screening methods used for blood donations in the European Community.
Donors must also answer a series of questions which are listed in Annex 2, and must meet certain criteria which are listed in Annex 5 and which, of course, should not be discriminatory.
The report does justice to the task, accurately describing Russia as one of the European Union's major partners and specifying a clear strategy for the European Union's cooperation with Russia.
However, I regret that talking about the question of Russia's membership or non-membership of the European Union gave the impression that this was under discussion.
Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Lalumière's report.
Paragraph 46 emphasizes that it has only been possible to develop security links with Russia since it was decided to integrate the Western European Union with the EU.
This effort will also provide a solid basis for lasting and healthy economic relations between the European Union and Russia.
There can be no true area of free exchange without this pre-condition.
Finally, whilst reiterating my support for this text, I would also like to emphasize that I share Mrs Lalumière's position on not inviting Russia to join the European Union.
It would be far better for another democratic body to be organized in the East around Russia, which could negotiate economic, cultural and political agreements with the European Union.
Relations between Member States of the European Union and Russia can only be based on equality and mutual benefit.
The general tone of the text is correct when it highlights the fact that the current weakening of Russia represents a transition in its history, and that the equilibrium of the European continent will largely be determined in the coming years by the role Russia plays.
The priority given by the rapporteur to consolidating Russian society is completely pertinent.
Let us not confuse the Russia of today with an emerging country whose financial difficulties can be alleviated with traditional financial aid.
First of all, the new democratic Russia needs us to take into consideration the huge efforts it must make to overcome the legacy of 80 years of communism.
They must start from scratch: after a very long and painful hiatus, Russia must get back to the dynamism and poise it enjoyed at the beginning of the century, which the revolution of 1917 stopped dead in its tracks.
The Community cooperation programmes can make a useful contribution towards the development of a vast partnership in all domains.
True, as set out in paragraph 31, strict controls over the funds allocated to Russia must be observed, but the rapporteur could have insisted in a symmetrical article on the need for the Commission to exercise equally strict controls over its own services operating on Russian soil, which have not always given the impression of integrity and professionalism which we would all like to promote.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, in Latin America, Brazil and Asia the world's lungs are on fire.
Countries in South-East Asia and Latin America must implement effective legislation and take different measures to combat the slash-and-burn methods, or manage them better.
The Union could take the initiative and organize an international conference on the issue.
That is why, following up a suggestion we put forward here three or four months ago, we think the Commission should implement a Community strategy defining not only the kind of actions to take but also how they should be followed up, with regular constant monitoring of results.
In this case we are not dealing with a disaster on European territory, but one in a particularly sensitive and important area, namely Amazonia, the very lung of the world.
The note also emphasizes that there are nearly a thousand firemen in the area, particularly from the Argentine Fire Brigade, awaiting the arrival of a further 500 men and specialists from the United Nations.
What happens in Amazonia or the great tropical forests - whether in Indonesia or Africa - is obviously of world-wide concern.
We support the proposal put forward in the joint motion for a resolution on the G8 meeting.
So he has got hold of money that could have been spent on medicines and food for the next century, so that in the long run it is all of us who are affected.
Mr President, there is no doubt that the tropical forest fires in Indonesia were started by criminals and that the Indonesian Government is certainly implicated.
There is always a promoter on hand to slip a bulging envelope to a member of the government or a member of their family, then, once the tropical wood has been exploited, the land is turned into plantations.
Mr President, first of all I would like to state that I am very pleased that this resolution means we are examining the forest fires in Brazil and Indonesia.
The first time it asked for this was only two weeks ago and, by that time, the international press had already pushed the alarm bells and the President finally had to admit that there was a catastrophe in the region.
We really need to ask whether the economic model of plundering natural resources, without any regard for the people or the ecology, is acceptable.
If this is the outcome of our international trade agreements, I really think we have to start changing this situation and changing it quickly.
Mr President, destructive fires on a vast scale in both South America and South-East Asia have caused unprecedented damage to the world's rainforests over the last year.
In the state of Roraima in Brazil, reports indicate that 700 000 hectares of pasture and forest were destroyed in three months and, up to very recently, a line of fire stretched for some 400 kilometres.
Preparations need to be made for a much more effective and earlier response in future.
It is vital that preventive steps be taken beforehand.
Although the Brazilian Government restricted clearing to 20 % of any holding, holdings of less than 250 hectares were exempted.
International assistance has been provided through the World Bank, but the experiences of the last year in South-East Asia and South America underline the need for a new strategy to be adopted now.
We now come to the point we are dealing with: the fires and destruction of the tropical forests in Amazonia and South-East Asia.
The same applies to the fires in the Asian tropical and subtropical forests.
Mr President, I will use this additional time you have granted me to welcome Commissioner Pinheiro and to welcome the decision of the Commission which, in Solomonic fashion, as we are dealing with Asia and Latin America, thought of asking the Commissioner responsible for Africa to reply.
We are certainly very concerned, and we are pleased that it has been possible to include this subject as an absolute priority among the urgent matters to be dealt with at this sitting.
I have to say, however, that we are very concerned, Commissioner Pinheiro, about the state of use of the EU budget line for tropical forests, which was keenly desired by our Parliament, a line which, as you know, in the same way as many lines relating to foreign actions, has sustained considerable delays of execution.
Mr President, the European Commission is very closely following the latest developments in South-East Asia, and in particular in Indonesia, ever since the outbreak of large-scale forest fires in 1997.
While rains have occurred in Sumatra and Java, the rest of the country is dry and may continue to be dry until May 1998.
The funds have been channelled through the International Committee of the Red Cross and also Médecins sans frontières de Belgique .
The mission will enable the Commission to programme its assistance in 1998 to areas where humanitarian needs are most urgent.
Also, and in a more long-term perspective, the Commission and Member States in Jakarta set up in 1997 a joint European Union Fire Response Group (EUFREG) composed of forest fire experts from various Commission and Member State projects in Indonesia.
As regards Brazil, we have heard today that, thanks to the rain that has fallen in the last few hours, roughly 90 % of the fires are now virtually extinguished and this is good news.
Several European non-governmental organizations have shown their interest in working in the affected areas.
However, as several honourable Members have mentioned, the problem is not just a short-term problem: it is also the long-term prospects for sustainable management and a sustainable policy in tropical forests.
Besides these two specific projects, there is a larger one under the acronym of PP-G7 which encompasses not only the promotion and conservation of sustainable forest management but also some programmes on research and some pilot cases with regard to some of the communities.
We think that, regardless of all these efforts, the idea of holding an international conference on this issue would be very much welcomed because the consequences of such fires are not just bad for the countries where they occur but for all humanity.
I wish to say that from 1992 to 1997, a total of ECU 300 million has been committed under the tropical forest financial instrument, which Parliament has granted to the Commission.
This is why we have decided to ask for an evaluation of all our projects from an independent external expert because we have to correct this mismatch between commitments and disbursement.
Second, it is very difficult to identify beforehand what disasters may occur but my colleague, Emma Bonino, and ECHO deserve our sympathy because they always manage to respond very quickly and effectively in order to mitigate as much as possible all the disasters that have occurred, at least on the humanitarian side.
The debate is closed.
The Turkish Government, however, rather than try to talk with the Kurdish people, has chosen repression, preventing the lawful exercise of the right of expression and demonstration of Kurdish and Turkish citizens and citizens of several European countries.
I think we should make the Turkish Government understand that European public opinion, together with Italian public opinion, cannot tolerate a country with which the above relations are maintained still being able to oppress human rights in this way.
Two fundamental questions arise: the first relates to respect for human rights in Turkey, and the second to the support the EU has always given to the Kurdish question and, more generally, to the rights of minorities wherever they are.
Cameroon Mr President, the Cameroon is a signatory of the Lomé Convention which states that development aid is subordinate to respect for human rights and fundamental liberties, such as freedom of speech.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, Pius Njawé is the director of a private press group known as 'The Messenger' and has been detained since 26 December 1997.
Pius Njawé, who has been imprisoned several times and is considered to be the father of the freedom of the press on the African continent, has once again paid a heavy price in the necessary fight for the freedom of the press in countries where the tradition of a single party still survives and where no opposition is tolerated.
However, I would like to point out something else.
I think we should take up the case of a friendly country such as Cameroon, not in order to criticize it but in order to criticize ourselves, so that we can finally achieve credibility.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of Cameroon raises a more general problem: that of freedom of expression, and particularly freedom of the press, in some of the developing countries, particularly some African countries.
I am very pleased that Article 5 of the Lomé Convention is emphasized so strongly in the resolution.
If we consider the history of the 20th century in Europe or the history of European involvement in Africa over the last 300 years, it becomes clear that we are not in a position to rebuke anyone.
It happened once, less than two years ago, when the protest, not just of this House but of almost all the Western government leaders and states, had the desired effect: that of postponing - but only postponing - his execution.
Once again, we have a new case of the death penalty.
What has repeatedly motivated us as Europeans and the European Parliament in these matters is firstly the fact that the death penalty still exists at all in the United States, and secondly the circumstances under which it is carried out.
The same deed is assessed in different ways.
In its report, the Commission notes that the human rights situation and the process of democratization have not made any substantial progress over the past year.
Furthermore, in its communication on a European strategy for Turkey adopted on the same day, the Commission confirmed its intention to continue giving financial aid to the Turkish NGOs working towards an improvement in the human rights situation in Turkey.
Despite Ankara's recent decision to suspend all political talks with the European Union as a result of the conclusions of the European Council in Luxembourg, the Commission still intends to continue informing the Turkish delegation of EU concerns over questions relating to human rights and respect for the democratic principle.
As to the question of freedom of expression in the Cameroon and the case of the two journalists, I would say that I share your concerns over their recent sentencing.
It poses a serious threat to the freedom of expression of journalists, a freedom which we all know is one of the vital ingredients of true democracy and one which is also covered by Article 100 of the Lomé Convention.
Indeed, in recent times there has unfortunately been a tendency for those in power in the Cameroon, as in other African countries, to curb freedom of expression with the help of a judiciary system which lacks independence from the government.
I can assure you that it will continue to strive for adherence to Article 100 of the Lomé Convention by closely monitoring the way the human rights situation develops in the Cameroon, and in particular the situation vis-à-vis the two journalists in question.
To conclude, Mr President, the question of the death penalty has once again been raised in this Parliament.
I simply want to say that as far as the United States is concerned, we consider that it is vital that all guarantees enshrined in the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights and other pertinent instruments are respected.
It is, however, regrettable that a civilized country such as the United States, one of the major world powers, should continue to pursue such a barbarous practice as the death penalty. (Applause) Thank you very much, Mr Pinheiro.
As you are one of the few Presidents who always provide information about what is said here in a part-session, I would like to point out that it is strange that the Conference of Presidents decided against placing such an important topic as Kosovo on the agenda, on the grounds of lack of time.
That is a ridiculous situation and I hope that this will be looked at by Parliament's Bureau because you have made decisions regarding Members and their voting records here that are now being disrupted by the travel arrangements that they have to make to travel to and from Strasbourg.
Mr Provan, there are two parts to your point.
Where it currently says 'to hold the ECB to account' the rapporteur is asking for this to be replaced by 'for the ECB to be answerable to' . (The President established that there were more than 12 objections) Mr President, I wish to apologize, because I wanted to ask the rapporteur, who is unfortunately not present, whether she could repeat the question.
It concerns paragraph 5.
I have a number of Members who want to make points of order.
But it is those people who actually took a gamble on the whole process, and have now done so again, who must bear responsibility.
Mr President, many people in this House know that almost every word counts, particularly in this report.
If we had the opportunity to vote on the oral amendment, we would have the result which the vast majority of this House wants, and the majority would be correct.
However, the first solution would be more correct, in my opinion.
He says he has now found this word, which is the right one.
However, I have the impression that not everyone in the House understands what this word is.
I will hear what they have to say before taking any decisions.
We shall therefore continue with our work in accordance with the voting list we have in front of us.
Mr President, I wonder whether we can make a molehill out of this particular mountain.
However, let us return to the original text, which many people tried with great goodwill to modify because there was perceived to be a nuance in terms of the original text being too strong.
After the vote on paragraph 5 Mr President, I formally contest the way you have proceeded.
Rule 116 gives the President the power to fix a deadline other than of one hour.
If you like, I can read you Rule 116...
The result is that today, in a month chosen by those taking part and nine months from the theoretical launch date of the euro, some of their number are realizing the dreadful truth that the Maastricht Treaty has stripped the national democracies of their power without creating any equivalent controls at other levels, and that monetary union will be controlled by no one.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on the European Central Bank, although not until there had been significant corrections by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
We would like to thank the rapporteur for a highly relevant report on democratic accountability in the third stage of EMU.
We have reached maturity and on 2 May, in an extraordinary sitting, we shall give our decision on the countries to adopt the euro when the single currency is introduced.
The ECB therefore now needs the European Parliament to see its operations strengthened and better promoted thanks to the democratic controls exercised by an elected Assembly with universal suffrage.
The overly extremist requirements presented during the Parliamentary committee debates should be put aside.
By contrast, the Maastricht Treaty makes the European Parliament an essential part of the legislation.
It enables us to play a positive role in the European Union's monetary policy.
Let us therefore build a basis for regular democratic dialogue and a network of mutual information, but let us guard against it becoming a blocking tool.
The euro must be the shared responsibility of all the citizens of the European Union if it is to create prosperity and employment.
The central question is to what extent monetary policy can be influenced, controlled and possibly even adjusted by political bodies, without affecting the formal independence of the European Central Bank.
Eighteen million people out of work, a similar number of people in insecure jobs, a European Council on employment, and governments fighting to reduce unemployment in their respective countries, and there are still political leaders who believe that the fight against unemployment is not a priority.
The ECB will conduct a single currency policy for all the Member States participating in European monetary union.
The Central Bank will be independent, but it will not be able to be irresponsible.
Its responsibility implies a dialogue and a transparency between it and public opinion, through the elected bodies of the Council and the European Parliament.
As regards the coordination of economic policies in Europe, the European Council of Luxembourg made progress on more extensive coordination of national economic policies and more especially those concerning employment.
It is in this area that a great deal of work will be done in the coming years, and it is a sine qua non for balanced economic and monetary union.
In the third stage of EMU, the democratic responsibility concerns both the ECB and the coordination of economic policies.
During the part-session in Strasbourg from 30 March to 3 April, the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted in favour of the report on democratic accountability in the third stage of EMU.
The report emphasizes, among other things: 1) the need for the future ECB to provide information on the definitions and operational objectives it uses to achieve the set objective of price stability; 2) the need for publication of the minutes of ECB board meetings; 3) the need to ensure a dialogue between the European Parliament and the ECB on economic and monetary affairs.
The Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted in favour of the report, based on the fundamental approach of requiring the greatest possible transparency and openness in the institutions of the EU.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson and Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), Krarup and Lis Jensen (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) EMU is a centralized, high-risk project with little popular support.
For this reason, we have voted against the report.
This report is full of good ideas on how the new European Central Bank will be held democratically accountable before this Parliament.
It reflects the criteria laid down in the Maastricht Treaty regarding consultation with Parliament on the implementing measures.
However, I fear that there will be no more transparency and democratic accountability in this regard than there has been in the process to date.
The inclusion of these two Member States in the list of first-wave countries demonstrates clearly that the Maastricht criteria were not adhered to and that massaging of figures is acceptable practice.
I hope that when Heads of Government meet under the British presidency next month for the formal vote they will have a better regard for the criteria than the Commission has displayed.
The political nature of the project will also surely undermine the position of the Central Bank and make democratic accountability harder to achieve.
The dictionary definition of accountability says it is being 'responsible to someone or for some action' .
It is in my view a mistake to give the impression that Parliament's right to be informed translates as a form of accountability, in the accepted sense of the word.
I have voted for the Randzio-Plath report because the degree of accountability it calls for is better than nothing.
However, we believe that these measures will not be able to reverse the unacceptable situation brought about by the creation of the ECB.
The only solution is to repeal the Maastricht Treaty and not to ratify the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The transparency and public nature of measures taken before the European Parliament constitute one of the most effective means of allowing public opinion to be informed through the press.
In other words, we need to avoid situations in which single monetary policies affect the different national economies in different ways, forcing the victims, once their national tax resources have been exhausted, to implement defensive policies to the detriment of the real economy and employment.
Daskalaki report (A4-0106/98) We have voted in favour of the report in question.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted against the report on post-SFOR strategy, because Denmark is exempted in the area of the common foreign and security policy.
Marset Campos report (A4-0120/98) The Commission's communication on a strategy for reducing methane emissions is timely.
It makes some worthwhile proposals and some which need to be reconsidered.
It is positive in the sense that it can be harnessed to provide a cleaner and less polluting energy source.
Essentially, what is required is an appropriate plan of action aimed at halting or reducing methane emissions.
However, the creation of operational authority for Europol is also important, and it would be a mistake if we did not use the simultaneous process of eastwards enlargement of the European Union, and the negotiations on it, to make all these new policies pan-European and involve the candidate countries as fully as possible.
In the case of Austria - which has thankfully been a full member of the Schengen Agreement, which it implements in full, since yesterday - we had the problem that that country joined first and only then began to create certain conditions.
One of the focuses of my report is therefore education and training - the training of junior managers in justice and administration, who will then actually be able to apply European law and the acquis communautaire, which are currently undergoing rapid enlargement.
The Czech Minister of Justice has stated quite clearly that she has not been able to implement much European law so far, and the little she has been able to implement in her country could not be applied by civil servants because they had not been trained to do it.
The Committee on Institutional Affairs shares the rapporteur's concern that the applicant countries should set in place stable institutions which guarantee democracy, the rights of their citizens, and the ability to take on the obligations of the Treaty and the acquis communautaire.
The first amendment from the Committee on Institutional Affairs highlights three problems: firstly, the five-year deadline for the adoption of measures aimed at the free movement of persons; secondly, their applicability to the procedure contained in Article 189 B; and finally, the decision about strengthened cooperation.
The Committee on Institutional Affairs thus insists that clauses relating to the field of justice and home affairs be revised when the institutional reforms take place, which should occur before the first enlargement.
The Committee is concerned about the risk of fragmentation of the European legal landscape.
In fact, the option which allows Member States to declare whether or not they accept the pre-judicial jurisdiction of the Court of Justice in the area of Title VI is dangerous for everybody, but more especially so for applicant countries, given the difficulties they face in adapting their legal systems.
Finally, I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention, if I may, to Amendment No 4 concerning paragraph 17, which was accepted by the Committee on Institutional Affairs but rejected by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to put it simply, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of Mr Posselt's report.
Over the years I have established that it is simpler to be a hardline left- or right-winger in this House.
That, Mr Posselt, is why we have been able to cooperate with you positively on this report.
I do not know whether it has to be in Deggendorf, Mr Posselt.
This will become more difficult if further states join and police and judicial cooperation remain in the third pillar, unless there is sufficient transfer of powers to the Union.
One aspect of this report which seems tremendously important to me is the fact that it reveals that the Community, or European Union, is changing more and more from an economic community into a political and thus a security community.
Furthermore, the actions undertaken in this field will be subject to an annual review, which the Commission will pass on to the Council and the European Parliament.
There are many ludicrous clauses in the Treaty of Amsterdam, but one of the most ludicrous is probably Article 29, which has, of course, also been included in this report.
This imbalance is also reflected in the imbalance of this report.
Reference is made to the rule of law, but only as an obligation for others.
With this policy, we are turning the countries of eastern Europe into a buffer zone for security, immigration and refugees for the European Union.
And, unfortunately, it is a cause for regret that the Member States of the Union and the European Union itself did not really contribute to the liberation of these countries, despite which, and thanks to truly exceptional men such as Lech Walesa, Václav Havel and of course, Pope John Paul II - not to mention many others - they liberated themselves.
They therefore have to re-learn that they are now living in a society which respects individual, civil and political rights.
Whilst it is true that we have a duty to help in the development of the eastern European countries and to contribute in such a way as to help them fundamentally return to a society which respects the rights of the people, it is also clear that we must proceed with tact and not act like school teachers.
Madam President, Commissioner, there are four matters I would like to raise, but the first thing I would like to say is that I am really glad that it is Commissioner Gradin herself who is present here, given her commitment to the fight against the trade in women and children, which also forms part of this report.
Obviously, there is a link between the security we can offer our citizens against crime and violence and the freedom of movement which we also will offer to the citizens of the candidate countries.
We now have a good balance between the need to remain in the single framework agreed in Luxembourg and the need to respond to the concern of the public that special attention should be devoted to justice and home affairs.
Negotiation with the candidate countries will necessarily be prepared in the classic structure of the Council.
The negotiations, as such, are conducted in bilateral intergovernmental conferences with each candidate country.
That brings us to the Schengen acquis , in particular, its safeguard mechanism.
The Council is still in the process of deciding how the Schengen acquis will become Union acquis under the Amsterdam Treaty.
Schengen, as such, as well as the benefits linked to it, such as removal of border controls, will only apply in practice as and when all its conditions have been fulfilled.
The presidency will be assisting the Commission in this task when it comes to justice and home affairs.
Here the Commission has always seen a very constructive role for Member States and their experts.
I would like to recall the decision taken in Luxembourg that a special pre-accession strategy should be put in place for Cyprus.
A strong emphasis was placed on justice and home affairs in particular.
The process has already started thanks to the network of contact points established last summer.
As regards police training, I would like to mention that three different police academies are already active in the central and eastern European countries.
Furthermore, the various programmes will be adjusted to all the problems that may become apparent in the negotiations or in connection with the regular review procedures decided in Luxembourg.
The regular review procedure is intended for all the ten candidates from eastern and central Europe.
The procedure is based on a report from the Commission, and it will be made for the first time at the end of this year.
I could also mention the pact against organized crime which has to be agreed for the European Council in Cardiff.
So the enlargement process will last several years.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
I would like to mention three things which affect me personally and also take me aback.
The Rules do not provide for replying to a Member who has invoked Rule 108.
I think I made it clear that the precise criticism is that in this third pillar, the position of the European Court of Justice has not been clarified in cooperation between justice and home affairs, that we have no list of basic rights, no parliamentary and judicial control over this area, and that the moral finger should be pointing at us, before we point it at others.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Mr Voggenhuber, I think you are out of order.
Perhaps it is possible to be a hardline right-winger in this Parliament, but people should, I think, at least know their own reports, in order to be able to defend them rather better.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the increased cooperation between the Member States of the European Union is completely legitimate under the principle of subsidiarity when it is clear that joint action is more effective than individual actions within the various Member States.
Can there be a more legitimate area for such cooperation than in the fight against international crime?
Now more than ever it is vital that we bring about concrete, practical, realistic and effective mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union.
To combat this, they notably asked for a review of the European Convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters, and recommended a series of practical measures such as allowing European judges to directly address judges from other European countries.
It is these concerns which are addressed in part by the draft Convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters and the draft joint action on good practice in mutual legal assistance.
It is quite exasperating and unsatisfactory that we should be giving a verdict on texts we know to have since been modified.
This exemplifies the major difficulties encountered by the negotiators in the difficult field of justice - namely the lack of mutual confidence between Member States as regards their respective legal systems.
We therefore believed it necessary to remind everyone of the strategic importance of legal cooperation in the fight against organized crime; to highlight the need to place consistent and easily applied instruments at the disposal of the justice professionals; to affirm that it is important to develop mutual trust between judicial systems; to take into consideration the requirements for speedy inquiries and court cases, whilst still respecting fairness and justice; to try to eliminate the obstacles in the way of legal cooperation; to take into account defence requirements; and finally, to encourage direct communication between the judiciaries.
The draft Convention makes provision for this facility, yet immediately grants Member States the option of not joining this simplified mechanism.
That is a question which must be put to us, the European Parliament, first!
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Convention and joint action go back to the Council's action plan for combating organized crime.
We must therefore also consider that the Convention passed to us on 14 and 20 January initially represents a major contribution by the Council to implementing the objective of the action plans.
We know that all the groups in this Parliament who have voted for the introduction of the euro have done so because they hope that it will intensify integration.
If we go on creating an economic area of this type, as we are doing, equipped with a single currency, but holding on to the idea that only our public prosecutors in the Federal Republic of Germany, France or Belgium are in a position to fight crime on the basis of their respective national law, like a child with a favourite toy, then I am going to turn to crime at some stage.
In all the Member States, there is a common awareness that this is a common problem that we can only tackle together.
There are certain articles, for example Article 4, whose only content is "deleted ' .
And then there is the usage of suspension points: paragraph 2 of Article 12 has three suspension points; subparagraphs e) and g) of paragraph 6 of Article 12, three suspension points plus three more suspension points, six suspension points in all; paragraph 6 of Article 15 contains more suspension points; and there are also some in Article 16.
We cannot allow it, because we must defend our institutional competencies - and here I would like to thank the Commission which, on the contrary, shows a deference in these matters concerning the third pillar which is worthy of praise.
Mr President, I consider the Convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, on which the report is based, to be a suitable instrument for reducing, if not removing, the existing shortcomings in the combating of cross-border crime, allowing for the justifiable criticism and amendments mentioned by the rapporteur.
We therefore agree with the report in full.
Both these instruments are necessary in the fight against organized crime.
The appeals to Geneva from a number of prosecutors are another example of why something has to be done.
The Convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is intended to improve and complement the way we work now.
Joint action is an important complement to the Convention.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Sanctions already exist in our Member States and these range from fines for minor offences to driving disqualifications for more serious offences.
The European institutions have already been very active in the area of prevention.
The Convention proposes to inaugurate the recognition by a driver's country of residence of a decision to ban them from driving taken in another Member State.
That said, certain organizations and several colleagues have told me of their concerns over the protection of citizens against the consequences of applying this new Convention.
The Convention has been painstakingly put together and incorporates barriers against all forms of abuse or unjustified complications relating to the people in question and furthermore, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has adopted a number of amendments which will further strengthen citizens' protection.
The catalogue of offences concerned only includes very serious offences which endanger people's lives.
Next, driving disqualification does not rely on a so-called centralizing bureaucracy in Brussels, but on the relevant authorities in the Member States of residence, who alone have the right to choose whether or not to apply the Convention.
For example, if a resident of Luxembourg is disqualified from driving in another Member State because of a blood sugar level of 5 parts per 1000, this decision would not be applicable in Luxembourg where the limit is 8 parts per 1000.
The Convention is not applicable if it can be established that the person concerned has not had the opportunity of defending themselves correctly, especially due to procedural irregularities or language problems, for the right to a defence is a fundamental right which must be respected.
Furthermore, the Convention also makes provision for several procedures aimed at taking into account the differences in administrative or legal methods in the different Member States.
I am therefore of the opinion that even though the present Convention may not be perfect, Parliament's amendments have rendered it logical, legally speaking more correct and transparent, and therefore better placed to protect the rights of our citizens.
Nevertheless, I would like to state that this report affects us all, although only a few Members are present, because any of us could commit a traffic offence in another country resulting in disqualification from driving in that country, but not in another.
As Mrs Reding has stated, a step has been taken in the right direction and I hope that others will follow.
The notorious example of someone losing their licence for drink driving in Sweden with 30 mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood would not be implemented in Germany, because such behaviour in Germany is not normally punishable.
Mr President, Commissioner, the way the draft of this Convention has been handled in the European Parliament shows once again that this Parliament is the right institution to protect civil rights and questions of protection in law.
Mr President, in principle we have two methods of achieving road safety objectives.
I believe that a combination of both methods will ultimately lead to success in Europe.
Apart from the legally unusual construction of Article 3 in conjunction with Article 5, the main problem is, in my opinion, that errors occur for a wide variety of reasons in proceedings abroad, particularly in the investigation of the circumstances, and remain unchallenged, again for a wide variety of reasons.
At the moment someone who has had his driving licence withdrawn in a country other than his home country can legally get it back when he returns home.
The Convention on driving disqualifications will close some of the existing loopholes.
I can tell you that political agreement was reached at the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 19 March and that is a step in the right direction, and the United Kingdom presidency is very optimistic concerning the possibilities of adopting the Convention at the next meeting of the Council at the end of May.
Once it has entered into force, the Convention on driving disqualifications will be an effective instrument for combating this kind of offence.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
Mr President, the decision taken by the Ecofin Council in 1991 to abolish duty-free sales for travellers within the European Union from July 1999 has thoroughly stirred up feelings recently.
The Irish Minister for Transport expects 30 000 to 50 000 jobs to be lost.
Mr President, the Commission is aware of the questions raised in some Member States about the situation which will arise after June 1999, the date on which intra-Community duty-free sales will end as decided by the Council of Ministers in 1991.
I am sure that you also appreciate that the Commission is aware that the large majority of finance ministers have made it very clear twice in November 1996 and very recently in March 1998 that the decision taken in 1991 to end intra-Community duty-free sales will not be reconsidered.
Against this background, the Commission, which had not proposed any specific measures in favour of this activity in its own proposal, finally welcomed in the following discussions within the Council the introduction of a derogatory regime of more than seven years.
Consequently, the Commission remains convinced that this specific regime was an appropriate and practical answer to the concern expressed at the time by the European Parliament.
Comparing this long derogatory regime to the solutions provided for other professions affected by the internal market legislation, for example, customs freight forwarders who receive funds for reconversion and so on of about ECU 30 million, a seven-year period allowing for an annual turnover of about ECU 7.5 billion does not appear to be disadvantageous treatment.
Moreover, launching a study now is not only unjustified but would be slightly irresponsible on our part.
I welcome this regional dimension which is focused on some real, specific and limited problems which might arise as a consequence of abolition.
The Commission, however, underlines the fact that it will be up to the individual Member States concerned to consider if, and to what extent, specific regional difficulties may occur and to take appropriate measures, including research, assessment and evaluations of local or regional effects on which demands by Member States themselves might be based.
The current programme runs until the end of 1999.
The next programming period for the Structural Funds will run from 2000 to 2006.
On 18 March this year, in the framework of its Agenda 2000 package, the Commission adopted its new draft regulations on the operation of the Structural Funds.
Honourable Members will therefore see that well-known and tested procedures already exist through which Member States and the Commission can work in partnership to help in situations where specific problems might arise in relation to the abolition of intra-Community duty-free sales which will take place on 30 June 1999.
This motion calls for a study of the economic and social implications of the abolition of duty-free.
I listened carefully to what you had to say, Commissioner Monti, and I know that on more than one occasion you have said no to carrying out such a study even though it had been previously agreed to.
You have also pointed out in the past that in the intervening period of seven and a half years the duty-free lobby were supposed to run down their operations and in fact what has happened is that the duty-free lobby have done the exact opposite and have expanded it.
The question I have to ask is how can you look at ways of ameliorating the effects without a study?
What we have also got to look at is the economic consequences and there are a number of unanswered questions here, too.
The reality is that the Commission representatives continue to refuse to make any analysis even in the face of the decision taken by the Transport Council last March to call for a study of the situation.
Two years ago I wrote to Commissioner Mario Monti renewing my call for a study.
I reject, therefore, the views of those today who argue that this debate is a late attempt to derail the abolition of duty-free.
For many, the duty-free question has taken on a certain symbolic significance in respect of tax harmonization and the single market, a symbolism disproportionate to its market share and substance.
Mr President, I certainly find the present debate on the future of duty-free ridiculous to say the least.
All we will do is anger European citizens who travel, and all in the name of the European Union and the single market.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
It is also a question of good faith between Parliament and the Commission.
I do not know what the precise fiscal effects of the abolition of tax- and duty-free sales will be, but I do know very well that assistance for the transport sector in the affected regions and for social security contributions from the unemployed will be back on the agenda, as you have indicated.
For all these reasons I say that we need a proper, correct survey before we go on arguing about the whys and wherefores.
I can imagine that you want this.
The debate is being dominated by Members from countries in which there are high taxes on consumer goods, or which have borders with such states.
Mr President, can I start by saying that if somebody was thinking of inventing duty-free tomorrow and they actually came forward with these ideas I am sure they would never be taken up.
The original rationale behind duty-free is clearly flawed and clearly the people who had the idea never envisaged the single market which we are trying to work towards at the moment.
The same could be true of something like smoking.
The question is, how do we deal with it?
Agenda 2000 does not provide any security.
The unemployment rate where I live on the North Sea coast is 11 % and rising.
A harbour without ships is like a sea without fish.
We must in Europe work to phase out the anomalies in the fabric of the single market and one of these anomalies is intra-Community duty-free sales.
But in Europe we need to harmonize other things as well, or at least approximate them - levels of excise duty, VAT and other taxes.
Tomorrow Parliament will vote for the resolution demanding such a study.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I have to say that you have sorely disappointed me.
You told us two things: firstly, that we would not be doing this study because it had been set for an immediate decision.
The second argument you deployed was the lateness argument.
There is a Latin proverb, a Roman law adage I am sure you know, which goes: ' Nemo auditur propriam turpitidinem allegans' - none shall invoke their own turpitude.
In any case, Mr Commissioner, you do not have the right to refuse Parliament or the citizens of Europe an analysis of the consequences of the decisions you take, simply because a decision has already been taken.
Mr President, I too am amazed that Commissioner Monti, having had time to reflect on the discussions we had earlier this week at Question Time and having heard the strong feelings that the majority of the House - we, the messengers of the people - have on this issue, is not prepared to relent, even at this very late stage, and give us a more positive response.
The success of the Irish minister at the Transport Council has been documented here.
There are now nine Council members around the transport table who are prepared to ask for a study.
The accusation the Commissioner made here that it is for people in favour of abolition and that we who are against it want to support the hidden subsidies to the alcohol, tobacco and travel industries is not true.
I appeal to the Commissioner to give us a more favourable response this evening, because the vote tomorrow will go in favour of the study, and it is time for the Commission to face up to that.
As to the pretended request of the Transport Council for a study, the outcome of the Transport Council of 17 March was that the presidency of the Council noted the strong support by a majority of delegations for the Irish intervention and decided to report to the Ecofin Council concerning further measures to be decided by the ministers of finance, if appropriate.
The Ecofin Council has repeatedly stressed its unwillingness to ask the Commission to do this study.
I refer to Article 23(1) of Directive 92/12 and Article 8 and following of the Sixth VAT Directive.
Even much more important, we are engaged in strenuous efforts to fight harmful tax competition.
You know, as I do, that the taxation of capital on this continent has gone down by 10 % in the last 15 years.
Taxation on labour has gone up 7 %.
In December 1997, for the first time, we persuaded the 15 finance ministers to agree on a package of measures against harmful tax competition.
I am grateful to those of you - and there have been some - who have noted the constructive approach that I brought here this evening.
A study may have two components.
One is to identify what specific difficulties a particular regional airport or ferry line might have.
Finally, it is not for me to judge whether the Commission is an appropriate political body or whether it gave you bureaucratic answers this evening.
Mr President, in his reply to the debate the Commissioner referred to the pretended wish of the Transport Council for a study.
It says: ' Dear Gordon, you will be aware that at the 17 March 1998 Transport Council the Irish Minister raised the issue of abolition of intra-EC duty-free under 'any other business' and called for a study to be undertaken into the possible employment and financial effects of the abolition of duty-free in 1999.
The debate is closed.
