Madam President, I would like the President to make urgent representations to the government in Rangoon in the light of Parliament's strongly worded resolution.
I would urge the President to make representations immediately to the government in Rangoon to protest against such an action taking place.
We shall pass that on to the President, but we are still at the stage of approving the Minutes.
On Monday our specially chartered train from Brussels, with more than 200 MEPs and staff on board, arrived half an hour late because the train staff were in dispute about whether or not the train ought to have a restaurant car attached on a public holiday.
Our task, as the European Parliament, will be to advise and assist the Commission and the Council with the analysis of successes achieved to date and the direction to be followed by the WTO in the future.
Anyone witnessing what is happening in Africa at present and seeing how helpless we are to do anything about it, anyone seeing how trade disputes are increasing even between western industrialized nations and how problems are becoming more acute in many regions of Asia and in India, anyone reading the ILO report on the hundreds of millions of children forced into what in some cases amounts to slave labour - anyone seeing these things will recognize that the WTO is becoming more and more important in acting to resolve conflicts and in giving people throughout the world the feeling that there are such things as legal frameworks and systems which are worth fighting for.
My report is not solely concerned with looking towards the future, where new topics such as the environment and social clause and rules governing investment and competition are looming on the horizon.
If we think back over the course of the Uruguay Round, there were - as well as many other problems - two areas in which it was particularly difficult to reach a consensus.
The other was the trade in textile products, which was a focal point of the negotiations for a long time and in which the interests of the industrialized nations clashed with those of the developing countries.
A few final points on my first report.
There will be three or four focal topics: the prevention and reduction of distortions of competition, the achievement of initial results in the trade and environment sector, improving market access for the developing countries, and a work programme for the foreseeable future.
We will also find that bilateral agreements between corporations and large companies are having an increasing effect on competition, and that solutions will have to be found at international level to regulate such agreements.
A prerequisite for a new competition order is that all WTO Member States should be obliged to accept comprehensive national competition rules, and to implement them.
In order to create a common platform for cooperation between the national competition authorities, minimum standards of competition control and their general validity are very important.
There will not be the same conflicts with the Third World in this instance that there are in other comparable frameworks, because interests in this area coincide with those of the Third World and, as far as I can ascertain, industry too has a keen interest in ensuring our joint success in this area.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago - at the Environment Summit in Rio - the world's political leaders, with Germany's Chancellor Kohl playing a prominent part, promised that they would finally take action and no longer shut their eyes to global dangers such as the hole in the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect and climatic change.
Worse still, even the call for a viable world economic structure is being heard increasingly rarely in public.
Two weeks ago, for example, the Council, headed by Helmut Kohl, resolved not to set up a WTO working group for social standards in Singapore.
Today, most European governments believe in free trade the way children believe in Father Christmas.
We in the European Parliament must today call upon the Commission and Member States of the Union to take action at last and fight in our interests in Singapore.
In virtually all problem areas, the Commission will fail to achieve its own reduction targets by the year 2000.
Unfortunately, even the Commission's proposals have been received with great reluctance by the Council.
My report, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on External Economical Affairs, contains, for example, a call for environmental experts to be involved in WTO panel proceedings.
Article 20 of the GATT must be extensively revised to enable more pressure to be brought to bear in favour of ecological production.
In calling for bans on imports, our aim is not to obstruct imports from the Third World but to provide additional aid to the developing countries through new financial resources, technology transfer and additional quotas and the easing of customs duties for all products of fair trade.
Transparency and the involvement of NGOs, unions and consumer associations have hitherto been totally inadequate or, indeed, non-existent.
Should the WTO prove incapable of reform, should it become no more receptive of social and ecological interests, consideration must be given to creating a new structure for world trade within the framework of the UN.
The EU is the world's greatest trading power.
Reference is made in this respect to the fact that the gradual integration of the textile and clothing industry into the central system of the disciplines of the World Trade Organisation and the impact of new free trade agreements with the countries of central and eastern Europe, the Customs Union with Turkey and bilateral agreements with Pakistan, India and China will substantially alter the framework for action in the Community textiles industry and this will force it to make a new effort to restructure itself, in order to face up - with guarantees of success - to international competition.
The agreement about trade in textile products and clothing has now struck a balance between members' rights and obligations.
The European Union accepted the gradual elimination of the restrictions of the multi-fibre agreement on the express condition that they should take place in this sector against the background of harmonisation and the equalisation of international competition competitions: in other words, international trade in textile products should be governed by the tougher rules and disciplines of the system of the World Trade Organisation.
From this point of view, the GATT '94 Textile Agreement should also be translated into new market opportunities for Community undertakings, in particular concerning textile and clothing products of high quality.
On the eve of the Ministerial Conference in Singapore, it is vital that the European Union should take a firm common stand vis-à-vis the application of the agreement on liberalising the textile sector.
We will admit that in the textile industry, too, the globalisation of economies is not a bad thing in itself but at the same time it is vital to have political regulation at the right level in order to correct distortions and negative effects, a task which at this stage in the process means that the WTO must also operate as efficiently as possible.
We must, finally, make sure that the economic and social idea of Europe is not lost in the process of liberalisation or in the creation of an environment which puts the citizens in second place.
Madam President, we are concentrating in this part of the debate on our experience of more than a year's implementation of the GATT Agreement on farm products.
The joint motion for a resolution asks the Commission to produce a sectoral analysis by June 1997 of the problems which operators in the various agricultural sectors are experiencing as a result of implementing GATT.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever we think back to the Uruguay Round, it always seems that agriculture was the stumbling block, the problem child of the whole negotiations.
If we go on like that, the next round of world trade talks and Singapore itself will be a disaster for the EU and for the entire world.
They also include ground rules for future international policy, in order to define what ecological and social standards mean to Europe and to others too - in other words, whether they are going to remain in free fall, in Europe and elsewhere, or whether those international standards will finally be enshrined at Singapore, and within Europe too, as ground rules to support a free internal market.
This is a political orientation of the WTO, and a question of quite crucial importance for the future.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, two years have gone by since Marrakesh.
Sir Leon Brittan told us yesterday that there was a tiny possibility of agreement on one of the points but I have not seen this and I hope that there is some substance in this.
The first response to this question must be given by the European Union and it must increase its engagement politique , its political profile, its political commitment, so that other regions of the world can see that the question of trade and environment is, for the European Union, as important as telecommunications, as important as the other sectors which it has dealt with, with such determination.
We must also fight to start negotiations on revising Article 20 of the GATT Statutes, so that this can be done and approved at the next Ministerial Conference in 1998.
His resolution begins by stating that world trade must help raise living standards, ensure full employment and increase prosperity rather than lead to ruinous competition for jobs.
The European Union will play a significant role in Singapore either in defending the introduction of social and environmental standards into multilateral trade arrangements or in ensuring that the ILO is given prominence in efforts to standardize social requirements.
We do indeed condemn distortions of competition caused by social and environmental dumping and we call for such dumping to be curbed by the introduction of environmental and social clauses by way of an amendment to Article 20 of the World Trade Organization regulations.
That is absolutely essential.
We believe that core labour standards derived from ILO Conventions need to be included at that point in Article 20 of the WTO regulations.
This was the report that was considered by our ministers back in May this year.
In other words, tremendous advantages are to be gained for all by incorporating such core labour standards in Article 20 of the WTO arrangements.
I believe that at the Conference of the World Trade Organization in December 1996, some progress will have to be made in that direction.
The World Trade Organization must progress towards the creation of a multipartite framework for international rules of cooperation and competition policy, taking account of experiences stemming from recent bipartite agreements such as the agreement between the European Union and the United States.
I would like to add that the European Commission must also try to reinforce existing bipartite agreements and extend them to the other major trading powers, always bearing in mind the legitimate interests of companies in relation to confidentiality and the protection of trade secrets.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming world trade conference in Singapore must not become focused on implementation and review - it must tackle the new areas that we in this European Parliament rightly formulated immediately after the Uruguay Round.
In Singapore, we must nail our colours to the mast and introduce rules to cover this subject of trade and the environment - in other words, environmentally compatible trade has to become a reality.
What will be particularly important, though, at this meeting will be the setting-up of a working group on fundamental social rights and minimum standards in the trade sector.
This is not a matter of protectionism from the standpoint of the industrialized countries - it is an attempt to achieve humane production and trading conditions in every country in the world, because after all the GATT - and the WTO, too - came into existence in order to improve living standards, ensure full employment and a steady growth of real incomes, increase effective demand, develop the full utilization of the world's resources and expand the production and exchange of goods.
We must, therefore, prevent the formation of cartels and introduce merger control, a kind of antitrust law, at international level, too; we must adopt a model based on the European single market which, after all, has not confined itself to free trade, open frontiers and free market access but has also introduced rules governing freedom of competition and thus something resembling a governmental administrative policy.
At the WTO Conference, one call that has been made by the European Parliament will be even more important than in the past: we need not just parliamentary involvement in every sector, what we need even more is for the EU to speak with a single voice if it wants to bring about fair world trade.
I have already crossed swords with Sir Leon Brittan about the way in which antidumping policy is managed and the way in which the quotas are managed.
As Barbara Spinelli has said in an editorial in the Turin paper 'La Stampa' , entitled 'The middle class at a loss' , Europe's citizens are confused about the future, rebelling against the tax for Europe, not because they have suddenly become antiEuropean but because they know that they are being asked to pay the price of worldwide competition and they want a development plan, they want to preserve the experience of a century which has tried to strike a balance between solidarity and individual freedom.
Europe is calling on its leaders to produce a plan of society which reconciles full employment with high standards of social protection.
The Singapore Conference will indeed deal with all aspects of our economic life and international economic relations and not just the supposedly 'traditional' issues.
The conclusions from Singapore will thus be crucial for the preservation of a multilateral system of free trade and for current or future negotiations.
In institutional terms the issues to be debated in Singapore fall partly within the exclusive powers of the Union and partly within the powers we share with Member States.
In the context of the common foreign and security policy Member States are, however, obliged to coordinate their positions and present a collective position in international organizations and at international conferences.
The European Parliament too must be adequately consulted and informed by the Council under Article J.7 of the Maastricht Treaty.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the European Parliament is today defining its political positions on the World Trade Organisation and some of its sectoral aspects.
The Commission document on textiles and clothing falls far short of what was required and hoped for.
We are, however, convinced that these rules are undoubtedly insufficient and cannot replace or do away with the vital respect for social and environmental rules, nor can they directly or clandestinely bring about a lowering of the current social levels attained by the more developed societies.
The 18 million unemployed people in the European Union or the United Nations report on the worsening of the gap between poor and rich countries are the best way of undermining such a profession of faith.
Instead of democratic controls, with action by national parliaments or the European Parliament, it proposes something which for us is unacceptable, in other words that the Member States should cease to be present in the WTO and should be represented by the Commission alone.
Madam President, I doubt whether anyone in this House would dispute the need for internationally recognized rules governing trade.
Having said that, the principles underlying the functioning of the WTO are something else.
Well, there is an Article 16 which says that every State shall ensure that its laws, regulations and administrative procedures conform to its obligations as set out in the agreements.
We are seeing this already in the European Union.
I can reel it off for you: leghold traps, the agreement on BST, hormones in meat, chocolate, bananas and now, lastly, the legislation on new foods in the course of preparation.
All this is being threatened with reversal by the WTO agreement which we unfortunately, as I see it, accepted two years ago.
So I welcome the specific proposals made in the various reports before us today, but I do not hold out any great hopes of Singapore, especially after listening to Sir Leon Brittan yesterday.
We shall see, after Singapore, whether I am wrong or not, but I must frankly say that I doubt it.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is based largely on the absolute omnipotence of free trade.
Major international companies are in fact colonizing the international organizations, without even a hint of democratic accountability.
Either we choose to give absolute priority to more streamlining, more productivity, more flexibility, more operational relocations, or we make a choice in favour of other fundamental values which Europe should and could apply in the new world dimension.
GATT and the WTO have chosen the old model, one which even goes against earlier commitments and agreements such as those of Rio.
I find no echo of this in the Kittelmann report.
The World Trade Organization is going to adopt a high moral tone, it's going to preside over a code of conduct.
When there were five francs to the dollar, the United States held a 40 % share of the world cereals market, but when there were nine francs to the dollar the United States' world market share was down to 25 %.
And in conclusion, Madam President, the World Bank has produced a report saying that we would be 500 thousand million dollars better off.
The problems have arisen when the European Union has handled these agreements somewhat defensively, adopting a somewhat deferential tone.
Well, I was in Cork, at the conference organized by the European Commission on the future of rural policy.
From this standpoint, the new negotiations to begin in 1999 - not far away now - with the challenge of decoupling aid from production will be the real test, the real test too for the reform of the European Union's market policy.
Madam President, I should like to congratulate Mr Moniz, the rapporteur, on his work and, of course, on having struck a certain balance in depicting the situation facing the textiles industry in my country.
In some cases, because the European economy is used to the welfare state and, in others, because it is backward, as is the case of my country.
The result is now visible: this is a political question and not one for economists, it is a question of understanding the destiny of human beings and knowing how to defend people from abuse.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer specifically within this debate to the report submitted by our colleague, Mr Moniz, and to thank him for having paid particular attention to the international situation of the European Union textile and clothing sector, since this is an extremely important industry in terms of its production, foreign trade and the number of people it employs, and one deserving of such special treatment.
I would like to conclude my intervention by calling for a detailed examination of those points in which he advocates fair competition, the power to apply measures to those rules which distort access or which are subject to fraud or which constitute de facto discrimination of a social, labour or commercial nature likely to cause serious harm to the textile industry and its possibilities within the European Union.
Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, the poorest states in the world, traditionally live by livestock farming.
Madam President, completion of the Uruguay Round meant that an important step towards freer world trade had been achieved under the supervision of the WTO.
It is in the interests of the poorer nations that the pledges given by the rich countries in earlier trade agreements should be kept.
Regarding the connection between trade and the environment, we endorse the recommendations of the KreisslDörfler report that multilateral environmental agreements should be made part of the WTO and that exports of products which contaminate the environment should be banned.
If we are to devise a strategy to deal with this situation, then I think we also need some transparency from the industry itself.
Perhaps the Commission could even draw up a report on the trends in the relocation of European Union companies abroad.
The Financial Times recently produced a report which illustrated the extent of shoddy working practices and extremely low pay, and that was in the United Kingdom alone.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are different interests in the European Community and sometimes there are contradictory interests between States which are essentially producers of equipment and those States which are traditionally the producers of consumer goods.
The European textiles and clothing sector has been a victim and continues to be a victim of this economic policy which allows a poorly regulated and sometimes fraudulent import of textiles as a bargaining chip for the export of equipment.
We all know that, after lengthy and difficult negotiations, the Community adhered to the agreement on textiles and clothing in the final act of the Uruguay Round.
In that agreement it was recognised that structural adjustments needed to be made to the European textiles industry in the new conditions of production and commercialisation which have affected textile products throughout the world.
It was also agreed that there should be a progressive integration, state by state over ten years.
The report drafted by our colleague, Mr Moniz, is a good one, and it goes in this direction, dealing in full with the whole subject.
Therefore, in my opinion, it deserves our support.
Madam President, the short time available to me is barely sufficient to recall one basic idea out of all the topics we are discussing today: the international and internal context of trade as the base of a triangle which makes it a central factor in the market, alongside two others: industry and the consumer.
Madam President, the tragic situation confronting the textile and clothing industry in Europe compels us to tackle this subject without red tape or rhetoric.
The international division of labour will continue to function as in the past, and the developing countries will continue to enjoy adequate production advantages.
We expect the European Commission and the Council of Ministers to advocate not just free trade but fair trade, with greater emphasis on the word 'fair' .
There are two difficulties for the textile and clothing sector.
We are in favour of five WTO basic conventions.
This is a question not of protectionism, Commissioner, but of 'core' rights, for example the right to freedom of association, the protection of children against exploitation in the form of child labour.
Regrettably the Council of Ministers has not yet mandated a working group to look at the social standards because of blocking tactics on the part of some Member States.
That means two and a half million direct jobs and another two million jobs indirectly.
Madam President, in the textile sector as in many others, harsh reality has overtaken and dispelled the illusions of a World Trade Organization that has been presented, untruthfully and demagogically, as fair and beneficial for all.
The cult of commerce, the creed of free trade and the dogma of globalization march on, with the deliberate sacrifice of hundreds of thousands of jobs in Europe.
The policy of opening up Europe to global competition, already a reality in the textile sector, is draining the life-blood from our industrial and social tissue and putting thousands of workers into the street.
Madam President, I have been allowed one minute, which is not long at all, to say three things about the textile industry, not forgetting to congratulate Mr Moniz on his report.
And finally, as a European, I once again call upon the Commission and the Council to make certain that the social clauses are put in place.
Apart from its direct economic importance, especially the maintenance and creation of jobs in industry and activities which are complementary to it, the placing of our textile products and clothing in the markets of third countries will depend on the recognition of the merits of European fashion, linked to cultural values which are a distinctive element of our presence in the whole world.
In this policy, it is important that the initiatives to be promoted should also take place in current textile regions, maintaining populations in existing social conditions and avoiding, on the contrary, a fresh concentration of investment in metropolitan areas, which are already overcrowded, which will only add an additional factor to the misery suffered there and increase the waste of resources.
Madam President, on the eve of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Singapore, it is vital that the European Union should maintain a firm common position vis-à-vis the application of the agreement on liberalisation of trade, especially in relation to the textile sector.
The excellent report drafted by my colleague, Fernando Moniz, demonstrated clearly and fully the importance which the textile industry has had, has and will continue to have in the economy of the European Union.
Much progress has already been achieved in its implementation, in particular by the setting up of a data base on trade barriers accessible by Internet as of yesterday.
Mr Kittelmann's report covers all the important subjects to be discussed in Singapore and the Commission is actively pressing for substantial results there.
The report supports in many respects the positions that we have taken in preparing for Singapore, particularly the case for the necessity to proceed with the liberalization of services by completing the negotiations on basic telecommunications by February 1997, as well as by concluding a new multilateral agreement on financial services by the expiry of the interim agreement at the end of 1997.
We will work hard on this objective with the United States and others but, given the opposition we are facing on this issue from the developing world, I am not sure how far the Singapore conference will go.
Since the publication of the report of the group of experts the Commission has issued a communication calling for an international framework of competition rules and also introduced in Geneva a draft decision for Singapore with a view to launching work in the WTO on this subject.
Indeed, following the progress made in multilateral trade liberalization, anti-competitive business practices may have a more significant economic impact.
The analytical work already undertaken in other organizations means that it is now possible to deal with this issue at the WTO, which is the most appropriate organization for the agreement of a framework of international competition rules.
We have made a proposal on the relationship between multilateral environmental agreements and the rules of the WTO and I welcome your support for that proposal.
The work of the CTE has helped to clarify the issues and close the gap.
For example, the conclusions endorse multilateral solutions to trans-boundary or global problems.
They acknowledge that trade provisions may be needed to achieve environmental objectives and that the existing accommodation for such instruments within the WTO rules should be preserved.
We have protected our position for the discussions which will continue after Singapore.
The process of debate has helped greatly to increase understanding of this complex issue and to lay the ground for future progress.
The extensive analytical work in the CTE has brought a much clearer understanding of the great complexities of the relationship between trade policy and environmental policy and that is important.
The first fruit of that understanding is better policy coordination in many administrations in these different areas, both in the development of MEAs and in domestic legislation.
The global environment is far too important to allow this to degenerate into another North/South divide.
The discussions have made it clear that there are no quick and easy fixes to the delicate balance of the environmental, developmental and trade needs of a world undergoing rapid change.
The question is how to take forward the debate for the benefit of all.
I would like to thank Mr Moniz and the REX Committee for the report on our communication concerning the impact of international developments on the Community's textile and clothing sector.
The Commission's communication was a response to the request from the Council.
We have heard from a number of Portuguese Members, for example, who have spoken very vocally and vividly about that.
The answer to current problems must be found in two things: the development of our comparative advantages and the opening up of markets across the world.
I am glad you have given priority to the continued liberalization of the textile markets and the creation of fair conditions for international trade in these products.
We have to continue our efforts to create a competitive environment in the world's markets, to strengthen our instruments for facilitating market access in third countries.
We have to provide an appropriate framework for the continuing adaptation efforts by European industry, and we have to strengthen our instruments against fraud and counterfeiting.
I believe that the results of the international agreements should not provoke a major break in the expected development of the sector.
Within the framework of the progressive liberalization of textile and clothing trade, access to third country markets has to be one of our priorities.
In addition, the sector itself must be able to strengthen its competitive advantages by developing innovation and utilizing information technologies even more than in the past.
We have recently underlined the need for a more proactive role in international trade.
The market access initiative is perhaps the most important innovation in external economic relations since the end of the Uruguay Round.
In that context the Commission has asked for an increase in the funds available for promoting European Union industry in third countries.
We attach also great importance to the fight against fraud and counterfeiting.
The legislation on legal protection of designs and models will also help as soon as it comes into force, and at the same time, we are continuing our efforts to improve the protection of intellectual property in third countries.
Finally, when implementing our structural funds policy, the Commission recognises that the difficulties caused by adaptation to new conditions are felt to a different extent in different regions.
Our policies intend to guarantee an appropriate framework for its development.
We have taken the initiative to invite the social partners in the Member States to a dialogue about the measures taken by all concerned parties and to consider possible complementary initiatives.
This dialogue has taken place within three working groups.
I believe the results of those groups will enable us to target our actions even better than in the past.
First, let me remind you that the new rules for complying with the WTO obligations have had to be implemented since 1 July 1995 for most agricultural products - a little later in some cases, such as olive oil and rice.
The key element of these rules was the requirement that export licences had to be issued for all agricultural products.
It must be borne in mind, though, that not all agricultural products will be affected in the same way.
Regarding the questions concerned with the level of refunds, I should note that the size of the refund depends to a great extent on the situation in the agricultural markets, or, more accurately, on the current situation both in the internal market and in the world market.
The problem here arose from the market situation, not from the budget.
If individual Members are interested in a detailed account of certain particular agricultural products, I am prepared to provide a specific written analysis covering those products.
In addition, though, I should make the point that the Council's implementing directive in any case calls for a general report on the implementation of the new GATT rules and the effects of that implementation to be presented before 30 June 1997, so that a general debate on these matters can take place somewhere around the spring.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in eastern Zaire.
Madam President, on behalf of the Council I welcome this opportunity to discuss the grave and pressing situation in eastern Zaire with Parliament.
In so doing, I wish to pay tribute to the manner in which Parliament continues to emphasize the importance of international humanitarian and human rights issues for the Union.
The deteriorating situation in eastern Zaire has again brought the threatening legacy of genocide and ethnic division in the Great Lakes region to the fore.
Once again, the international community is faced with the daunting challenge of facilitating the creation of an effective and lasting framework to resolve the fundamental and unresolved issues facing the Great Lakes region.
The international community still has an opportunity to prevent any further deterioration of the situation in humanitarian terms.
Our current efforts to address the immediate humanitarian needs of the area must go ahead hand in hand with a commitment to address on-the-line political tensions and problems in the Great Lakes region.
Against this background, the presidency and our partners in the European Union are continuing our intensive efforts to assist in averting further human tragedy in eastern Zaire and to avert a potentially catastrophic humanitarian disaster in the Great Lakes region of Africa.
Foreign Ministers of the European Union discussed the situation in eastern Zaire on 28 and 29 October and called on all parties to exercise restraint and to have regard to the safety of civilians.
We called on all parties concerned, and in particular the authorities of both Zaire and Rwanda, to begin such a process as soon as possible.
The Council also requested the European Commission to report urgently on the situation and to make proposals for action by the Union to assist actively in the process of getting supplies to those in need.
It is the hope of the presidency and our European partners that the unilateral ceasefire, which was recently declared by the Tutsi side in eastern Zaire, can become part of a fully agreed and sustainable ceasefire between all parties to the conflict.
This would facilitate both the immediate delivery of humanitarian assistance and the commencement of political dialogue to resolve the crisis.
Mr Aiello also attended, on behalf of the European Union, the summit of regional leaders on the crisis in eastern Zaire, which was held in Nairobi on 5 November.
The European Union has welcomed the outcome of the Nairobi summit on 5 November as a further positive step towards the realization of a community, of a framework within which the crisis in eastern Zaire can be resolved in a peaceful and humanitarian manner.
The summit also strongly supported the establishment, in conjunction with the respective Secretaries-General of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, of safe corridors and areas of sanctuary inside Zaire, with an appropriate protection force to facilitate humanitarian assistance and the voluntary and safe repatriation of refugees.
These positive proposals are being encouraged by the European Union as part of its ongoing support for the efforts of regional leaders and the Organization of African Unity, whose central role is both recognized and supported by the Union, to bring about a peaceful resolution of the conflict.
As part of this approach, my colleague, the Minister of State, John Burton TD, chaired a special meeting of European Union Development and Humanitarian Aid Ministers in Brussels on 7 November.
The meeting reaffirmed the Union's deep concern on the situation in eastern Zaire and the threat posed to peace and stability in the entire Great Lakes area.
It also reaffirmed the Union's determination and commitment to do everything in its power to help and to assist immediately vulnerable people, refugees and displaced persons in eastern Zaire, in averting human tragedy there and in avoiding a potentially catastrophic humanitarian disaster in the region.
Ministers recalled the Union's commitment to promote the voluntary return of refugees to their countries of origin and strongly underlined the need to ensure safe and protected humanitarian corridors in order to facilitate delivery of immediate relief supplies to the victims of the crisis where they are, as well as the voluntary, safe and dignified return of refugees to their countries of origin.
Ministers also underlined the importance of support for the democratic process in Zaire.
Ministers agreed on the need to work in a coordinated manner with international humanitarian agencies and NGOs to ensure an effective humanitarian response to the crisis.
Since the beginning of the crisis the European Community and Member States have provided about ECU 755m in humanitarian aid.
The meeting also called on all parties in the region to ensure the safety and freedom of movement of all international humanitarian aid personnel.
Minister of State Burton accompanied by Ministers Pronk of the Netherlands and Serri of Italy visited Zaire and Rwanda between 9 and 12 November.
In discussions with Prime Minister Kengo as well as the other Zairean Government ministers the EU delegation impressed on ministers the importance attached by the Union to early adoption of measures in the region to advance reconciliation and for actions to facilitate immediate humanitarian assistance for those in acute need.
The EU delegation emphasized the importance attached by the Union to the opening of safe and protected humanitarian corridors to assist delivery of emergency relief supplies as well as the importance of facilitating the voluntary and safe return of refugees to their countries of origin.
For its part, the Zairean side expressed to the EU delegation the view that refugees in Zaire must return to their countries of origin and stated the government's view that the existence of the refugee camps is a main factor leading to instability in the region.
The EU delegation visited Kigali on 11 and 12 November and held lengthy discussions with President Bizimungo, Vice-President Kagame and other ministers.
The EU delegation also met on 11 November with UN Special Envoy Raymond Chrétien.
I should emphasize that the humanitarian situation in eastern Zaire remains extremely precarious.
Although to date the security situation had prevented humanitarian agencies from operating in the region, there have been some hopeful developments over recent days, including the delivery of limited humanitarian supplies to Goma, although these supplies have not yet been distributed.
The Rwandan Government agreed earlier this week to allow eight humanitarian agencies and NGOs to enter Zaire to provide humanitarian assistance and prepare a plan of action on the refugee issues.
For this reason at their meeting in Brussels on 7 November, European development ministers welcomed the call by regional heads of state for the immediate setting up of safe corridors and temporary sanctuaries inside Zaire to facilitate humanitarian assistance and the repatriation of refugees and noted their request in this regard to the United Nations Security Council for the deployment of a neutral force.
They also noted that special arrangements are urgently required in the short-term to ensure a stable security situation in eastern Zaire and noted the efforts to this end being pursued by the UN Security Council.
European Union Member States are now considering how best they can assist in the early implementation of Resolution 1078 as the basis for the authorization of a multinational humanitarian intervention, taking account of its prospective mandate and the contributions which can be made by partners - the Organization of African Unity, African states, the United States, Canada and others.
The Union will continue to make every possible effort towards the resolution of the current humanitarian crisis and the ongoing conflict in eastern Zaire through this and other appropriate means.
At an extraordinary meeting in Addis Ababa on 11 November at which the Union was represented by Special Envoy Aiello, the central organ of the Organization of African Unity mechanism for conflict prevention endorsed the position taken by the regional summit of 5 November in relation to the establishment of a neutral intervention force.
It also stressed the importance of an effective African contribution to such a force and called on the Security Council and the international community to create a mechanism which will ensure this.
The Foreign Ministers of Cameroon, Ethiopia and Zimbabwe have been charged with following up the implementation of the Addis summit in cooperation with the OAU Secretary-General.
The European Union welcomes the outcome of the extraordinary meeting as further confirmation of the commitment of African countries to contribute effectively to resolving the crisis in the Great Lakes region.
In the context of the need for a comprehensive approach to the complex and interconnected problems at issue in the Great Lakes region, the European Union continues to support the convening of an international conference under the joint auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, in order to address within a global approach the root causes of the crisis and to ensure respect for commitments.
The situation in the Great Lakes region is a challenge to the entire international community.
In conclusion, it again highlights the need for this Union through the Intergovernmental Conference to strengthen its capacity to act internationally in dealing with situations of this kind.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what you are witnessing here, day after day, as you follow the more and more alarming information provided by the media, is nothing less than a humanitarian disaster.
The events of recent weeks - we need to be clear about this - were not unexpected in the regional context that we have been familiar with for several years, the crisis situation in the Great Lakes region.
After all, the day-to-day reality that we see in the Kivu, in eastern Zaire, is the most violent and tragic manifestation yet of a particularly complex regional situation involving not only Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi but also Uganda and Tanzania.
The problems of the region are exceptionally serious in humanitarian terms and explosive in military and political terms.
It also expects to see the European Union making an effective contribution to defining and implementing an overall political solution to guarantee peace and stability in this region.
Ladies and gentlemen, any steps towards finding a general political solution necessarily involve the refugees' return to their country of origin.
This in turn requires implementing the decision taken back in 1994 to separate the soldiers, militiamen and other forces of intimidation from the main body of refugees.
Unless we can remove the armed elements, we are going to be unable to solve the problem of returning the main body of refugees from Rwanda and Burundi, which is still a priority objective in resolving the crisis.
The governments of the countries of origin, for their part, must create the necessary conditions for their people to return, with the aid of the international community.
Next, and this is an absolutely essential aspect, everything possible must be done to involve the states in that region in the quest for a general political solution.
The regional summit in Nairobi on 5 November showed that governments in the region are aware of the issues at stake in the present conflict and ready to assume their responsibilities in seeking a general, pragmatic and viable political solution.
The broad outline of that conference was also emphasized in Nairobi on 5 November.
Those, Madam President, are the few points I wanted to make this morning about the conflict in the Kivu and, more generally, about the Great Lakes region.
But I believe we have the privilege and benefit of having with us today Emma Bonino, whose voice has awakened consciences which had, perhaps, dozed off somewhat both in Europe and in the rest of the world.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after what has been said by the Council and the Commission, which has put this crisis in its historical and political context, if I can put it that way, it is now my duty to tell you a few things that may be new to you, information which I brought back with me early this morning.
The first point, an important one in my view, is to confirm that in all my discussions with everyone I met at every level, in Kinshasa, in Kigali, in Kiseny, with all the humanitarian agencies, with all the NGOs, I found complete unanimity on one point: without a multinational force in the field and without military protection there is no hope at all - I repeat, no hope at all - that the lives of hundreds of thousands of people can be saved.
First, I know Goma, having been there on various occasions, and that isn't where the refugees are.
Anyway, you saw what happened because it was reported in the press.
Finally, after interminable negotiations and under conditions which I must admit were hard to bear, a few United Nations agencies and a few NGOs were authorized to take 20 tonnes of food inside Goma.
But the VHA, on returning, did in fact confirm to us that there seemed to be no one really in danger or in need in Goma.
But I must add a word of warning: these initiatives, far from being effective in bringing people back together, do raise a lot of problems of principle, even political problems.
For all these reasons, I hope - and we all hope - that this multinational force which is going to open up the humanitarian corridors to allow the direct distribution of food to the endangered population will be in place as quickly as possible.
This concerns the mandate of this multinational force.
But I do hope that you will do everything in your power to ensure that the mandate given to this force also includes a mandate to disarm the refugees.
If not, we shall be back in a situation where we have temporary areas sheltering perhaps a few thousand armed refugees - in other words, the same situation that we and the humanitarian aid workers have been familiar with for two years.
I hope, then, that we can all unite in demanding that the mandate for this force includes the right to disarm the refugees and to allow them, rather than forcing them, to return - I want to be quite clear about this, in other words to force a choice, to give the refugees the choice of deciding what they want to do.
If it is necessary to use the word 'force' , which I keep hearing here and there in somewhat ambiguous contexts that caused me a great deal of concern, the target must be to force people to choose.
And I believe that, for once, Europe has clearly shown that, as far as it is concerned, dignity and human life and solidarity are not just empty words but words that mean something.
I feel that Parliament as a whole is poorly represented here - numerically, although not in terms of quality - to thank the Commission and the Council for what has just been said, and more particularly to express our admiration and recognition for Emma Bonino and for the way in which she acted both before and during her trip, and the way she is acting now.
Madam President, in the breathtakingly beautiful Great Lakes region the violent settling of accounts has come full circle.
But fundamentally nothing will change unless there is a political dialogue, in the first place inside Rwanda, between representatives of the regime and genuine representatives of the Hutu community who are not responsible for the genocide and the rest of it.
Madam President, I feel shame and anguish, because this disaster was predictable, and no vestige of a solution has been found for the problem that began in 1994, caused by the influx of thousands of Hutu and Rwandan refugees into the already overpopulated Zairean Kivu.
Just ten thousand or so men would be enough to enable humanitarian aid to reach the Kivu, and enough to encourage the refugees to return to Rwanda.
Let us hope that the Security Council will finally, and as a matter of urgency, adopt a resolution allowing those men to be deployed and allowing the 80, 000 tonnes or so of food supplies already in the region to be released.
Madam President, there is still time to avert apocalypse and to launch an appeal for an immediate cease-fire to allow the vital dialogue between all the factions concerned.
The OAU must help to bring about a political solution for the entire region, and South Africa must accept its responsibilities, even if it has other priorities than fighting the fires ravaging Central Africa, because otherwise the whole of the Dark Continent could catch fire.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall use the word 'shame' twice.
The European Union must strive to find a political solution and a global programme to put a stop to this situation, which could have been prevented, as the Commission so clearly said a little while ago.
The humanitarian aid corridors must be organized as soon as possible, and if the UN Security Council cannot reach a decision, even though Canada has started proceedings, Europe will have to take action immediately in concert with the Organization of African Unity and without further procrastination.
The European Parliament must be involved in this and must, at the first opportunity, send a joint delegation made up of members of the Development and Foreign Affairs Committees and ACP representatives, in support of the European Commission and the Council, to determine the joint action to be taken in order to put a stop to this appalling crime against humanity.
Madam President, our group believes that the European Union should head any international intervention aimed at preventing the humanitarian disaster in eastern Zaire which we have been witnessing, at once horrified and powerless, for several weeks now.
Intervention on the part of the international community must have a three-fold objective, in our view.
The objectives of any intervention on the part of the international community must also include the convening of an international conference aimed at finding long-term solutions to the fundamental problems which exist in the Great Lakes region.
Solutions to these problems should envisage cooperation between all countries in the region, the voluntary, free and safe return of refugees to their homes, the implementation of sustainable development programmes for the area, commencing with the immediate requirement for material reconstruction, a return to peaceful coexistence of different ethnic groups in each country and the establishment of democracy and full respect for human rights in all countries in the region.
And yet, two years ago, the authorities in Kigali gave us warning of what to expect.
Today, the tragedy has erupted, and only a strong display of political will by the Security Council can stop it.
Miliary resources, too, will be needed, but we must stress the need for the strict neutrality of an international intervention force, whose only mandate will be to allow humanitarian aid to get through and to ensure the possibility of voluntary return to Rwanda and Burundi for those refugees who will be welcome there.
As for those who prefer to stay in Zaire - and, sadly, we all know why they want to stay there - well, let them stay!
The international force must not be ordered to prop up a corrupt and discredited Zairean administration, to protect an army that has been reduced to looting its own country, or to allow the re-establishment of the armed forces of those responsible for the 1994 genocide in Rwanda!
If we want this joint intervention by the Western and African states to be no more than the political reflection of our duty of solidarity towards the civilian population, then we will have to ensure that this intervention does not involve those countries which have for too long shown their concern to support the former power in Kigali and what power remains in Kinshasa!
We cannot claim to be surprised by the conflict in Zaire, because it is the culmination of a crisis in the Great Lakes region which we have seen developing, in all its detail, since 1993.
The EU and Member States have the diplomatic and logistic capacity to head any humanitarian intervention, to support a decision on the part of the United Nations Security Council to provide military protection for such intervention and to see it implemented.
The contrast between declarations made by Member States and their actual willingness to contribute to a solution, both immediately and in the long term, smacks of hypocrisy or even, at times, schizophrenia.
That aside, the most urgent problem to be solved is the crisis facing the population, and the formula for doing so is to provide humanitarian aid, but this can only be provided under military protection, as has become clear from experience in Bosnia and Iraq where it was possible to provide for the people's needs only after exclusion zones had been decreed.
When this multinational force is set up to protect consignments of humanitarian aid, its objective being to safeguard the right to survival of a people under threat of barbaric attack, we will be able to congratulate ourselves.
I think it is rather a cruel irony that today the World Food Summit in Rome opens as we are here in the European Parliament contemplating the fact that millions are facing starvation in Central Africa.
This will not only facilitate the delivery of humanitarian assistance, but of course it will also help the whole process of building a long-term solution in Rwanda and elsewhere.
Whatever happens in this current crisis, we must not lose sight of the need for a political strategy, for a regional solution, after the crisis has been sorted out.
We have seen, as both Commissioners have said, a paralysis, a callous indifference, and we have seen a lack of moral or political leadership in the world.
Madam President, having heard the introduction to this debate, I must say that we are fortunate to have a Commission as well as a Council, because what we have heard from the Commission here today has been very much more specific!
I want to say to Mr Pinheiro that his contribution was very welcome.
Finally, 80 % of the weapons are exported by the big five in the United Nations.
The big five have been very slow to act in this particular crisis in Zaire and the Great Lakes region.
Any idea of a Hutu territory in Burundi and Rwanda, bordering on another territory handed over to the Tutsis, would be to forget the fact that the latter represent 15 % of the population.
Written speeches by Members listed to speak in the debate: Madam President, one of the most appalling humanitarian tragedies is now being played out in the eastern areas of Zaire: more than a million people are today in danger of dying of hunger and disease, and many thousands of refugees have already paid with their lives for the renewed outbreak of fighting in that region.
The main responsibility for this crime rests with those Rwandan forces - both the militias of the former regime and those loyal to the new government in Kigali - which in recent years have done nothing to bring about a new national reconciliation but, instead, have deliberately fanned the flames of ethnic and political hatreds, which today are inevitably erupting in armed conflict.
We all know that, in order to aid the refugees, what is needed is military, political and humanitarian intervention to re-establish minimal conditions of security for civilians and for the international bodies.
That is the indispensable first step towards finding a lasting solution to the conflicts in the region.
We know that 314 votes are needed and that the Commission's position is decisive regarding any amendment to the common position.
On Amendment No 39: Mr President, this is an extremely important amendment.
In paragraph 10, where mention is made of enabling the refugees to return home, I think it is important to indicate that this would be a voluntary return.
At a time when the eyes of the entire world are on events on Zaire, I find it scandalous that we could not spend ten minutes more debating a problem which concerns the entire world.
I want to take the floor before we begin the vote on the Dybkjær report on the review of the Fifth Environmental Action Programme.
Neither I nor the other Members in this House are strangers to political debate and controversy and the fact is that relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission sometimes involve disagreements.
When I read in the Danish press words like 'untrustworthy' applied to a committee of the European Parliament then I begin to have doubts about the extent of this respect.
I believe in fact that the Commission's and Parliament's greatest common interest lies in ensuring that we achieve as open a public debate as possible, that we be able to involve citizens and that we achieve some results.
I believe that all of us would like to see the best possible public involvement in such a debate.
The expansion of the field of application to sectors such as agriculture or tourism, the requirement that Annex II should have equal weight to Annex I and the new provisions relating to information, monitoring and inspection of evaluation procedures are all necessary steps in complying with the concept of sustainable development which is contained in the Treaty on European Union, despite the strong vote against by the Right.
Cabrol report The undersigned have voted against this report in its entirety.
The reportʼs proposal creates an unnecessary and efficiency-stifling intermediate level in international health policy co-operation.
The fact is that these continual new EU institutions demand resources which have to be taken from somewhere.
The fact that one simply calls the national bodies "Eurocentres' does not make the situation any better.
The Dybkjær report, in the text produced by the Environment Committee, is highly critical of the revisions by the European Commission regarding progress with the implementation of the Fifth Programme.
The objectives of the programme will not be achieved, at least in a great many very important areas, unless a clear signal is given to the Member States that they must give serious consideration and top priority to the commitment to sustainable development.
Since the Commission's proposal for a decision failed to reflect this urgency, the committee has felt it necessary to take on the work that the Commission should have done, and at the same time to point out the most serious weaknesses in the Fifth Programme, such as the lack of definite objectives and time frames, and suggesting initial recommendations for the forthcoming Sixth Action Programme.
The revision forms part of the codecision procedure, and so offers Parliament the opportunity for an in-depth discussion with the Commission and the Member States on sustainable development in Europe, on the early integration of environmental questions with political ones, and on the need to define indicators which will make it possible to assess the progress made towards sustainability and to indicate objectives and time frames for future years.
This proposal for a decision is based on two new documents: the Commission's progress report, and the report by the European Environmental Agency on the state of the environment in Europe.
In my view, the efforts currently being made are inadequate to achieve the objectives of this Fifth Action Programme.
I therefore hope that this House will demonstrate greater determination.
The fifth programme of measures for the environment was adopted in 1992 and remains in force until the year 2000.
Rübig report The Commission has proposed that a legal framework should be provided for financial assistance with the administrative costs of associations concerned with environmental policies in Europe.
The Commission's proposal is somewhat restrictive, and, as yet, falls short of genuine support for the existence of a strong, well coordinated environmentalist movement, which is what would actually be necessary in order to bring about and promote sustainable development in this area of the world.
It sets out clearly which organizations should be supported, and it respects the need of those organizations to determine their own priorities and activities independently.
This is the correct approach, since coordination at European level is expensive and, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, the European authorities should be the first to be aware of their responsibility to contribute to the involvement of citizens and their organizations in the development of European policy, rather than relying on national or even local financing.
Except in rare cases, no budget lines are provided for the purposes of European coordination and representation.
So it is extremely difficult for the associations to take action internationally without major support from the European Union.
The text of the resolution, in point of fact, criticizes this idea on the ground that it would tend to remove the agency 'from any democratic control' .
At the same time, the explanatory statement is equally intemperate in its criticism but for precisely the opposite reason: the agency would be at risk of being a 'highly politicized body' because it would come 'under the supervision of the Council, a body which jointly represents the governments of the Member States' .
This statement, unfortunately for its author, amounts to an absolutely clear acknowledgement that the Commission is taking advantage of the many different hats it wears to confuse issues, at the risk of employing competition policy in the service of other objectives which it may have decreed are the objectives of the Treaty.
I had occasion this morning to criticize another confusion of the same kind in the Commission's tasks, where on the one hand it distributes dubious Community aid and on the other it is a harsh critic of aid distributed by the Member States.
It must not, then, be made responsible either for the distribution of aid (a function of the Member States) or for arbitration in competition disputes, a task which should be given to a specialized body under the overriding political control of the Council, as described in Article 93(2) of the Treaty.
But our view is that these matters are better dealt with at the national and regional level, where one is closer to the action.
The Council is passing the buck to the Member States, while national governments invoke the competence of the European Union.
Characteristically, while the 1996 budget provided 57.75 MECU for action on behalf of SMEs (line B5-322 'Employment and development for Europe' ), in 1997 only 25 MECU are provided for the ELISE budget, which indeed were first entered as reserves.
Garcia Arías report Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE Group will also be making a written explanation of vote, but I wanted to make an oral addition to it at this point, to the effect that the PPE Group has now rejected a report for the first time in 25 years - since reports on competition were first debated in this House.
On the whole, we regard the report as very good and in that it contains significant observations in relation to the Commissionʼs report on competition policy.
This increase is explained by the accession of three new Member States.
Apart from this first matter, what concerns me is the use of Article 90(2) of the Treaty.
Every day, the approach adopted by the Commission, citing this article, is depriving these services of their substance.
The XXVth report by the European Commission on Competition Policy should provide an opportunity for reflection on public aid to employment, which has been the subject of numerous controversies recently.
For example, the European Commission, applying the virtually exclusive powers vested in it by Articles 92 to 94 of the Treaty, has criticized the French textile plan which proposed to ease the burden of social security costs in this sector in exchange for specific commitments by undertakings regarding the preservation of jobs, employment for young people and adjustments to working hours.
This situation must raise a few questions.
At the same time, though, we must not lose sight of the fact that, in the present climate of economic and social upheaval, the Member States have a duty to try to preserve the cohesion of their societies.
It refuses to accept that employment has been the first victim of the competition policy.
Reality, however, is also painful from an institutional point of view, from the standpoint of ability to exercise democratic control.
A characteristic example is provided by recent developments in the telecommunications sector, with the decision to merge British Telecom with MCI, the second-largest international telephone company in the USA.
This will produce a complex extending over 73 countries, while the combined turnover of the two companies today amounts to 43 billion dollars.
The same is about to happen with the forthcoming privatization and merger of France Telecom and Deutsche Telecom, which will result in a gigantic private monopoly.
We will vote against the report, not because we disagree with the need for some rules of competition, which with certain provisos could protect peoples and economies, but because we condemn the philosophy that governs the EU in this sector and which brings tragic consequences for working people and for our national economy.
Secchi report On the whole, we regard the report as containing important points, but certain clauses mean that in the final vote we are unable to support it.
A correct implementation of the internal market constitutes an important part of the work aimed at achieving higher efficiency and, thereby, greater prosperity and more jobs.
Mr Secchiʼs report brings out some of the problems which remain before the four fundamental liberties can be implemented.
The Commission's report on the single market in 1995 will stand as a monument to unilateral vision.
The Commission's report never touches on this aspect of the question, but is entirely based on the simplistic idea that, while the progress achieved is due to the beneficial effects of the single market, the setbacks must originate elsewhere - though precisely where we are not told.
For example, the Commission's report, while regretting the fact that checks on individuals still take place at the Union's internal frontiers, expresses satisfaction that the Schengen Member States have 'irrevocably' abolished such checks at their common frontiers, and denounces the Commission's determination to extend this system to the whole of Europe.
As the report stresses, ' in the Commission's view, the internal market must function under the same conditions as national markets, and intra-Community travel must take place in the same way as travel between regions or provinces within a Member State' , in the same way, in other words, for Community nationals as for those coming from third countries.
We need only wait for the Commission's report on the single market in 2002 which, if monetary union goes through, will surely explain to us calmly that - hooray! - we have created 500, 000 new jobs although, sadly, the number of people unemployed has increased by 10 million.
A common tax policy will lead to substantial chaos and exacerbate the social problems in Member States.
The requirement in paragraph 37 is an attack upon national sovereignty and upon parliamentary democracy in Member States.
We cannot agree that the implementation of the internal market will solve the problem of unemployment in EU Member States.
A totally free internal market which does not acknowledge environment, animal welfare and regional differences, promotes neither long-term growth nor the welfare of its citizens.
I have supported this report today as it rightly emphasises the importance of applying those single market rules we have agreed on in every Member State.
Too often our citizens get the impression that only in their own country are the rules enforced whilst people and companies in other states receive an unfair competitive advantage by lighter application of EU rules.
The most important task facing the EU today is the consolidation of the single market, in order to ensure that European companies can operate effectively and therefore create jobs.
As I made clear in my speech, I do not believe that this in any way serves a sensible economic objective.
The only objective it serves is to strengthen peopleʼs distrust of the Union.3.In paragraph 6 there is talk of the desirability of totally abolishing checks on people at borders.
My group has profound reservations about this report which in many respects flies in the face of some of our deeply held convictions.
In particular: we reject those aspects of it which could put at risk the single market; -we regret that it appears to take no account of the distinction between intra-Community and extra-Community relocation; -it fails to acknowledge the importance of foreign direct investment in creating jobs.We believe, too, that the report strays into areas which are the responsibility of other committees.
As the rapporteur states, such transfers of undertakings usually have a prejudicial effect on the employment market and on living conditions both in the regions of origin and in those to which the undertakings relocate.
In my own country, which is Spain, countless relocations are taking place in the textile sector, for example, with undertakings transferring to Morocco in order to reduce labour costs.
The transnational corporation Alcatel Alsthom is terminating the contracts of thousands of workers in its subsidiaries in Spain, France, Italy and Portugal (specifically 1, 338 workers in Alcatel-España).
Now it is up to the Commission to collect the ball passed to it by the EP and compensate for the advantages of subsidization, both in internal structural development and in its external relations, by means of instruments with a close-range effect on competition, such as taxes.
A certain part of the authority devolves entirely upon the Member States.
The EU is an international cooperation between free states, and this presupposes the authority to act freely with regard to co-operation in other international organisations.
The Kittelmann report, which the European Parliament has just adopted on the eve of the first ministerial conference of the World Trade Organization, to be held this December in Singapore, represents a major step in the right direction for this House.
Unfortunately, this onset of awareness has come very late in the day, perhaps even too late.
We would have preferred for there not just to be 65 of us out of 405 members who rejected the GATT in 1994, for precisely these same reasons.
It is obvious, in point of fact, that the Singapore meeting is not going to concede to the demands of the European Parliament, and, in particular, that any discussion of a 'social clause' to be observed in international trade is going to be set aside and reduced, at best, to a few minimal social standards which fail to address the scope of the problem.
And now, the trap has closed, because it is virtually impossible to make the essential amendments.
If the Union were to make the Commission its sole negotiator, it would be likely to increase the scale of this disadvantage, and would be encouraging the kind of obscurity in negotiation from which we suffered so severely at Blair House.
The concept of a sole negotiator may have more effects than simply weakening the control exercised by the Member States over the Commission - it may also, by restricting the number of opinions we can express from 15 to 1, erode our diplomatic room for manoeuvre.
We therefore call upon the Intergovernmental Conference to take, immediately, institutional steps which will enable us to avoid having conditions imposed on us by others, as happened at the time of the Uruguay Round.
In particular, Articles 113 and 228 need revision in order to ensure clarity of negotiations and the Council's control over the Commission, and in order to ensure that the Member States are never again confronted with a fait accompli.
For the first time since the WTO was founded, two years ago, we will have the opportunity this December, at the ministerial conference in Singapore, to take stock of what the World Trade Organization has achieved, make any necessary adjustments to the course it is steering, and set it new tasks to perform.
For this reason, the Greens welcome the attempt to involve us, as Members of the European Parliament, in the Singapore process.
In recent months and weeks, we have already had to watch the official programme for Singapore being constantly trimmed on all sides.
Quite the reverse, in fact: more and more local markets are collapsing, more and more companies are falling into foreign hands, there is less and less control over the transnationals, more and more people are working in the most degrading conditions so that their bosses can survive the stiffer competition, less and less self-controlled regional supply is possible, more and more ecological systems are being destroyed.
Any debate on the democratic control of the totally undemocratic institution which is the WTO is completely out of the question.
The REX report, when it was adopted in committee, was appropriately embellished to take account of all these themes.
The report was still far too wedded to a fetish of economic growth which is totally incomprehensible ecologically.
Your social and environmental clauses, even though they may be a good idea in themselves, are worthless unless they are applied.
The Council has taken no decision on the need to adopt a social clause in the WTO rules or to exert pressure on countries practising social dumping.
International multipartite agreements must take into account the interests of less developed countries, make the most of the comparative advantages of each country within the framework of an international apportionment, and create prerequisites for the development of all peoples.
It calls for implementation of the timetable for the deregulation of trade in textile products, despite the fact that it recognises the disastrous consequences of this for Europe's textile industry.
It asks for acceleration of the deregulation of services and for the immediate conclusion of negotiations on the deregulation of telecommunications, and calls for new negotiations on the deregulation of marine transport markets or international direct investment.
Mr President, in recent years the European Parliament has taken a continuous interest first in the opening of the peace process, and then in its subsequent development.
I doubt if there is any matter in which the European Parliament has been more consistently involved.
Parliament supported the European Union's important commitment to ensuring the existence of the Palestine government, it did not hesitate to criticize the Israeli government when the latter seemed to be obstructing aid, or to criticize the Palestinians when they seemed to be insufficiently resolute in their action against terrorist groups.
The European Parliament ensured that the elections in Palestine were monitored, and was applauded not only by the Palestinians but also by the Israeli government of the day.
I should add that we are not alone in feeling the concerns we do.
A recent survey just published by Israeli newspapers reports that 48 % of those questioned in Israel felt that the country was not on the right track, while only 37 % held the opposite view or had no opinion.
We need to re-establish confidence in the peace process; and I hope that Parliament will help to bring that about by adopting this resolution by a large majority.
The visit culminated in the opening of the Middle East and North Africa Economic Conference in Cairo where the troika also met Israeli Foreign Minister Levi.
The troika began with a visit to Syria, where it met President Assad and the Syrian Foreign Minister.
President Assad reconfirmed Syria's strategic decision for peace and willingness to resume negotiations with Israel.
In Jordan, the troika met King Hussein and the Crown Prince Hassan, who expressed grave concern about the future of the peace process and warmly welcomed EU efforts to play a greater role in it.
The King also stressed the need to strengthen regional efforts which could reinforce the peace process, particularly the Barcelona process and the multilateral track of the peace process.
In Gaza, the troika met President Arafat.
The President maintained that while negotiations on Hebron and related issues had not made progress since his visit to Dublin on 29 and 30 October, they were continuing at an intensive level.
Meeting Foreign Minister Levi before the MENA Conference, the troika stressed the need for early progress in the negotiations.
It emphasized the Union's willingness to work closely with Israel and the other parties to overcome the difficulties in the peace process.
Mr Levi reaffirmed Israel's commitment to honour the Oslo Accords.
At the end of the visit Mr Spring addressed the MENA Conference which is intended to underpin and support regional cooperation and the peace process.
In his speech he called on the parties to reclaim the spirit of Madrid and Oslo and to continue towards the common goal of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace for the whole region on the basis of all relevant resolutions at the Security Council and the principle of land for peace.
The appointment of the EU special envoy is another very significant development.
The informal European Council in Dublin on 5 October considered this proposal and on 28 October the General Affairs Council confirmed the mandate for the envoy and appointed Ambassador Moratinos of Spain to the post.
Mr President, allow me to welcome this European Parliament resolution on the Middle East peace process, which is based, moreover, on the excellent and comprehensive report written by Mr Luigi Colajanni.
Firstly, some thoughts on European Union economic support for the peace process.
This process was finally confirmed at the Barcelona Conference in November 1995, which set the bases for this future of cooperation on the Union's southern border.
And the European Union has not only undertaken to provide aid but has effectively paid over 80 % of this contribution, something that other financial and political partners in the peace process cannot match.
Let me return, then, to the potential role to be played by the European Union, not only as principal economic, financial and commercial agent in the region but also because of its involvement, in doing whatever is possible to seek a satisfactory conclusion to the peace process.
We understand perfectly well that the new Israeli government needed some time to grow accustomed to the new situation and to apply peace accords which, when it was in opposition, it criticized most harshly.
Pacta sunt servanda : this principle is the key to the proper continuation of the peace process.
However, security must in no event be an element in the economic collapse of Gaza and the West Bank.
that extremists on both sides - and there are indeed extremists both on the Israeli and the Palestinian side - will finally succeed in achieving short-term benefits through violence and terrorism which can then, in the longer term, be used as an excuse to hold back progress in the peace process.
However, in Israel, owing to the behaviour of certain elements in the Israeli police and army, human rights are also under attack.
As a consequence, we once again have to maintain a balance and require both parties to fulfil their responsibilities in this area.
I believe that the European Union is in a position to adopt a more neutral, more aseptic and more balanced position vis-à-vis the conflict between the various parties on the basis of our financial commitment.
However, the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner will forgive me if, after their clarifications, I still have the impression that in the peace process we are still the subject of a de facto veto on the part of the Israeli government and I would like to know whether Foreign Minister Levy has corrected his statement to the effect that the European Union ought to pay up and shut up with regard to the peace process.
The first reason is historical and moral in nature and has to do with the fact that, for better or for worse, Europe is historically involved with Israelis and Arabs, as we Spaniards well know - a historian, Benjamin Netanyahu, wrote one of the best books ever about the Spanish Inquisition and also happens to be the father of the current Israeli Prime Minister, and according to Shimon Peres it was he who convinced him of the absolute isolation of the Jewish people.
However, if we recognize Israel's right to existence within safe frontiers, we also have to recognize the right of the Palestinians to a homeland.
So I feel we have to adopt a balanced approach, which is what the European Union attempted to do in the interim between the now far-off Venice declaration and the two fundamental events which have defined this process, namely the Madrid Conference and the Oslo agreements.
A second reason is security.
We cannot claim that the Mediterranean is an area where there is cooperation and security whilst there is an ongoing conflict between Arabs and Israelis.
I feel that this factor, too, ought to make Israel consider its position vis-à-vis the Union, not only in terms of its complying with the agreements - I concur with Commissioner Marín that pacta sunt servanda - but also so that any process we are involved in and are party to enables us to participate actively in the consolidation of peace.
And if there is one thing we ought to do today, then besides supporting the Colajanni report we must insist that Europe's political role should be extended and should become more substantial in the Middle East.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for nearly half a century the international scene has been darkened by the East-West conflict and by the confrontation between peoples in the Middle East.
Today, the cold war is no more than a memory, and the hope of real peace in the Middle East has seen the light of day.
The Washington agreements of December 1993 and the drawing-up of a peace plan bear witness to a deepseated determination to put an end to what threatened to be an everlasting conflict.
Of course there have been delays and hesitations in the peace process, and the recent crisis in Jerusalem gives legitimate grounds for concern.
But in the context of a peace process that is still so fragile, the important thing is not to be carried away by emotion, but to take a cool look at the present situation and the progress that has been made in an attempt to obtain a clearer view of the future.
The Israeli government may admittedly be hesitating for a moment, but it knows - and no one has the right to suspect it of not knowing - that it is bound by the commitments entered into on Israel's behalf.
Hatred has had its day, but nor can we accept the idea of a cold peace in the region, which would obstruct the present situation and make genuine peace a vanished dream rather than a dynamic which, despite all the difficulties, will shape the future of the Middle East.
The European Union has the capability to participate actively in this process, and to be more involved than it has in the past, but to do so it must remain impartial, above suspicion of favouring one side or the other.
The text before us does not entirely satisfy that requirement.
I hope that Parliament, at voting time, will bring its customary wisdom to bear in introducing the necessary balance, by way of amendments which the rapporteur seems to have accepted in advance, and in that case my group would be able to support it.
Mr President, the situation in the Middle East is unpredictable.
I hope the Union will be able to play a part in the peace process.
From the Union's standpoint, such political action must be based on the conviction that peace in the Middle East will be achieved only when the Palestinian question has been resolved in a just and long-term manner, in accordance with international resolutions and on the basis of the principle of peace in exchange for territory.
The European Union, therefore, must urge the Israeli government to comply strictly, and within the terms and deadlines set, with the undertakings made in Oslo, abandoning the provocative and risky policy followed since its election by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is principally responsible for the critical point at which the peace process now finds itself and, of course, for the bloodshed which took place at the end of September.
The Union must demand that the Israeli authorities give up their policy of expanding Jewish settlements and illegal occupation of land.
The European Union must put pressure on Israel both politically and economically, because the Oslo agreements contained and still contain a strong side and a weak side, and achieving balance means that the weak side, also, has to be assisted in any negotiations.
We therefore ask the Council and the Commission to suspend application of the provisional trade agreement and the flanking measures which exist between the Community and the State of Israel and which entered into force on 1 January 1996.
That is why we, the Greens, have maintained that it is important that, in connection with the statements made and the attitudes assumed in respect of the peace process, we also direct a justified criticism at the Palestinian administrationʼs contravention of human rights and freedom of expression which are cited by Amnesty, Reporters sans frontières, reliable journalists and by many others.
It was a disaster in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that our demand was rejected; it was the intention of the report that it should not contain any criticism whatsoever of the Palestinian administration.
We cannot accept a demand from the Prime Minister of Israel or the United States government that Europe should not interfere.
However, in order to play its part the European Union must satisfy certain conditions.
More seriously, some of the Israeli population seems to support this kind of provocation.
My last comment looks towards the future.
My friends and I did not share the optimism of this House when it hailed the signing of those agreements on 13 December 1993.
Yet the Oslo agreements did nothing to repair any of the injustices committed between two peoples in the Middle East, and against two peoples in the Middle East: the Palestinians who were driven out of their lands in 1948 and 1967 and are now incarcerated in Bantustans more secure than those you formerly denounced in South Africa, or the Lebanese who for twenty years have endured occupation by both Israel and Syria.
A genuine peace must be based on the following principles: the creation of an independent Palestinian State with sovereignty over a viable territory, the granting of international status to Jerusalem, and the restoration of sovereignty to the Lebanon, which must no longer be occupied by Israelis, Syrians, Palestinians or Iranians.
Those are the bases for peace, and, I should add, the conditions for the survival of Israel, which could then join together with those peoples in the region which favour it to form a confederation of the Middle East - no more difficult to construct, after all, than the Federal Republic of South Africa.
We have no majority decision process, no common diplomacy and no joint armed forces, so let us not act as if we had.
The people of Israel must be told that we want to bring them security through peace, and the government of Israel must be told that we strongly disapprove of its brinkmanship policy.
Our influence can only be economic, but that influence is powerful.
A more fruitful approach would be to suspend application of the interim trade agreement between the European Union and Israel, and defer ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean agreement, signed between the European Union and Israel on 20 October 1995, until the Israeli government has honoured the agreements concluded between Israel and the Palestinian authority.
Israel and the present Israeli government laugh at it.
Our disapproval must be made known, Mr President, and it must also be effective.
This lack of objectivity is extremely harmful, because, quite obviously, a text of this kind suggest that Europe lacks authority to act as a mediator.
Mr President, when Yasser Arafat received a delegation of French communist Members of Parliament in Gaza last October, he made an urgent appeal to Europe.
The Israeli government is continuing to renege on its commitments and still refusing to apply the Oslo agreements, even though the Knesset has ratified them.
Our essential objective must be to induce Israel to respect the Oslo agreements in their entirety and to desist from all provocation.
We also appeal to the national parliaments to suspend ratification of the agreement until such time as the Israeli government respects the Oslo agreements and opens genuine negotiations with the Palestinian authority.
The European Union must meet the expectations of the Palestinians and the peaceful faction in Israel, and take an active part in the peace process without waiting for permission from the United States.
Our view is that the Union cannot accept this kind of blackmail, but must carry out its specific role in the peace process without being treated just as a dispenser of funds and cash.
We want a political initiative by the Union which will serve to remind the Israeli government to respect the agreements that were signed, will serve as a basis for an agreement on economic and trade co-operation with Palestine, will raise the European Union to the status of a qualified arbiter in a regional peace process which is not confined to a few factions but is comprehensive and includes the necessary resumption of the dialogue with Syria and Jordan, will assess the possibility of freeing Lebanon from foreign occupying forces, and will ask Iran to exercise its influence over the Islamic groups so that the path of dialogue can bring back peace and prosperity to the peoples of the region.
Ladies and gentlemen, it was certainly necessary for the European Parliament to adopt a clear position and make specific proposals for the restarting of the peace process in the Middle East, and in that light I pay tribute to the efforts of Mr Colajanni.
At any rate, at this stage of our debate, I want to make three clear points in my capacity as chairman of the 'Europe-Israel' delegation.
First, we are - and I am - in favour of a just peace between the Israelis and Palestinians, and therefore in favour of the spirit and the letter of the Oslo agreements, which must be applied.
Secondly, we regret - and I regret - the present delays and the words and deeds of the new Israeli Prime Minister, some of which may be seen as provocations which jeopardize the continuation of the peace process.
Naturally, we must spare no effort in attempting to bring this about and, to this end, the European Union must undoubtedly play a much more active and decisive role than hitherto.
Congratulations are therefore due since, on this occasion, the President-in-Office of the Council, the troika and the Commission have exercised their powers and authority more decisively.
However, I find it rather inappropriate to be debating this resolution on the Middle East just now.
For all these reasons I would have preferred us to postpone the debate for a month, but so be it.
My feeling is that this resolution on the Middle East is not at all balanced and is even biased.
I also think that this kind of approach to the complex situation in the Middle East totally disqualifies the European Union as a trustworthy mediator there.
Mr President, I should like to say that the European Union wants to play a part in the peace process in the Middle East, to assist and promote the peace process.
In the report we are considering, after the amendments made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the European Parliament has distanced itself from this stance; it is opting for making a political and moral judgement, which may be right or wrong - significantly wrong, as I see it, in the way it is expressed - but politically, above all, it is opting out.
It is clear that the Israeli Government needs time to decide its stance on the peace process.
In our view this is not helped by the role which the Union is arrogating to itself in the peace process at the moment.
The talks with Arafat, the Council statement of 1 October with its one-sided criticism of Israel, earlier visits to Orient House, but also the recent visit of President Chirac, have certainly done nothing to enhance the Union's status as a peacemaker.
Mr President, what we are talking about here is not simply settling a dispute between Israel and the Palestinians.
It also affects us because we have all been victims of terrorist activities which have stemmed from the Middle Eastern conflict.
For those reasons I reject those voices I have heard in recent weeks that suggest that the European Union has no role to play, or ought not to interfere, in the Middle East peace process.
At the same time, we ought to be using our influence with other Middle Eastern states, not least Iran and Syria, to get them to use their influence with fundamentalist groups in the Middle East to support the peace process and not undermine it because ultimately the victims of any efforts to undermine the peace process will be the Palestinians.
As Commissioner Marín has pointed out, ultimately the path to peace lies as much with economic development as with international diplomacy.
The tremendous poverty of the Palestinians has to be alleviated and we should be looking to encourage projects of economic cooperation which link the Palestinians with the Israelis in order, in the long term, to cement the peace process.
We woke up in Damascus, on the day after the Israeli elections, and that day, at precisely 9 a.m., our first meeting was with the Syrian Foreign Minister.
The Minister was, to say the least, extremely concerned, but no one, I believe, other than a group of representatives from this House, could more vigorously champion Israeli democracy and the fact that that democracy was not a matter of good and evil.
It is a crucial issue for the future of the peace process.
The Palestinians, however, must recognize that Israel has some rights and all, I believe, want to live in peace and security.
I salute King Hussein, I salute President Mubarak of Egypt.
We note with ever-increasing resignation that the real beneficiaries of Rabin's murder are the assassin Yigal Amir, the Hamas terrorist groups and this same part of the Israeli political spectrum.
I think we need to develop the understanding that this must not be allowed to happen and that, of course, this withdrawal can only take place in the overall context of a comprehensive peace settlement in the Middle East.
Recent events have unfortunately produced a stalemate in this peace process and the situation is currently very finely poised.
The Union must provide the diplomatic motivation for negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians to move forward, and it must assume a leading role, which is its due, together with other mediators, such as the United States.
It is not just economics which will assist attempts to restructure equilibrium in the region - economic cooperation must also be accompanied by political initiatives.
The recent violence is a reminder to us that our priority should be to reach definite agreements as soon as possible.
The principles of non-violence and unity are the only way in which we can find solutions and make progress in the negotiations.
That does not mean that we can hush up or lessen the decisive responsibility of the new Israeli government.
The European Union has an economic, financial and humanitarian presence in the Middle East which is far greater than its political effectiveness or visibility.
From this point of view, I think that the Colajanni report is a very balanced base for the European Union's action in this area.
Between Madrid and Oslo, we finally became convinced that the fragile shoots of peace had finally taken root in Palestinian soil.
These actions are creating a climate which makes dialogue more difficult, if not impossible, and they are providing the extremists - all the extremists - with alibis for their policies.
That is a great temptation, on the face of it, but the day will come when such an attitude may become very dangerous and hard to sustain, even for the world's biggest and only superpower.
But I have no doubt that, when the time comes, Europe will still be here and we shall be able to make a vital contribution to settling these conflicts.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
On 4 September 1996 the Commission submitted to the Council a proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 92/14/EEC on the limitation of the operation of aeroplanes covered by Part II, Chapter 2, Volume I of Annex 16 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, second edition, 1988.
This amendment aims: (a) to update the annex of the directive, including a list of aircraft from developing nations which are to be exempted from the non-operation rule until 1 April 2002; (b) to allow Member States which operate an airport system the possibility of limiting or excluding the operation of certain noisier types of aircraft at one or more of the airports forming part of the system; and (c) to introduce definitions and other drafting amendments that seek to clarify the objectives of Directive 92/14/EEC so as to allow a uniform interpretation within the Community.
This proposal for a Council directive will be examined by the Council bodies in the near future.
I understand that Parliament is also examining this proposal and Council adoption, as you are aware, must await Parliament's opinion on this matter.
As examination by Council bodies is at an early stage I am not in a position to give the honourable Member more precise information as to when the Council might adopt this proposal.
The problem which caused us to submit this question to the Council is that many European citizens, in a good number of cities in the Union, are suffering on account of uncontrolled noise from certain, usually antiquated, aircraft which make life unbearable for many people living near airports.
We would have liked a little more precision in this matter but at least the Council is demonstrating its sensitivity in seeking an urgent solution.
At the same time I would point out that in doing this we have to take special account of the concerns of developing countries, which might not be able to meet the requirements in the same timescale.
I appreciate the spirit of the question and I am sure it is one we all share.
Secondly, although I am delighted with what we have been told and although we have made a lot of progress in eliminating the noisier aircraft, all aircraft are noisy to some extent, especially at certain times of the day.
The Council has already underlined many times, and most recently at the Informal Council in Killarney, the primary importance of improving the consumer information on the identification and quality of bovine meat.
At the beginning of October the Council received proposals from the Commission which aimed to introduce a package of measures relating to the identification of animals and the labelling of meat.
The proposals will reinforce the provisions of the current directive with regard to a central computerized database, a passport for each animal, a double ear-tagging arrangement for identifying each animal and registers of animals on each holding.
In response to the crisis experienced in the beef market this year, the Commission unveiled a number of proposals involving measures to reduce beef production in the short and medium term, thereby restoring balance in the market following the substantial decline in consumption, the achievement of economies within the EAGGF Guarantee Section by reducing compensatory payments in the arable crops sector in order to resolve the problems in the beef and veal sector and amendments to Regulation 2328/91 on improving the efficiency of agriculture structures.
A first thorough examination of these proposals at the Agriculture Council on 16 and 17 September revealed a wide divergence of views on each of the Commission's proposals.
The Council of Agriculture Ministers meeting on the 28, 29 and 30 October reached political agreement on the main elements of the Commission's proposal for the amendment of the basic regulation for the beef and veal market.
In relation to calves, the Council decided that Member States should have a choice of actions to reduce the overall numbers.
These measures, which will operate for a period of 2 years from 1 December 1996, are designed to lead to a reduction of at least 1 million in the number of calves in the Community.
In relation to funding, the Council decided that any adjustment in expenditure for 1998 should be dealt with in parallel with the drafting of the agriculture budget for that year.
Obviously this decision is without prejudice to the European Parliament's opinion on the matter.
In relation to 1997, the Council took a favourable view of the Commission's proposal to postpone the oilseed advances as a means of meeting 1997 budgetary needs.
The Council decision on funding must await a Commission proposal to modify the relevant regulation and the opinion of the European Parliament on this proposal.
The Council of Ministers also recognized that the package of measures agreed at the October Council is designed to deal with the short-term consequences arising in particular from the BSE crisis and believes that further changes in the beef premium are necessary to align the beef supplies in the Union with the likely long-term level of internal and external demand.
The Council invited the Commission to examine this issue and to submit proposals within the next 6 months with regard to beef.
The objective of the Council is to take a decision on such proposals before the 31 December 1997.
The Commission's proposals on agriculture structures will be considered in this context.
The Council also decided on the distribution key to be applied in the allocation between Member States of this additional compensation.
In relation to the other part of the question, under the distribution key agreed by Council for the allocation of the additional amount the UK will receive 13.1 %.
On the percentage allocated to the United Kingdom, would he not agree that it would seem fairer to give a higher percentage to the country whose market and whose consumer confidence in that market has been most seriously damaged?
It is important in these areas that at the very least an extensive paper or cattle passport system will be put in place.
In relation to the suggestion that a higher degree of the allocations should go to Member States whose market is most damaged, I would point out that for a country like Ireland, for example, which is a much smaller country than the United Kingdom, where we have something like a little more than half of the total number of cattle that they have in the United Kingdom, the knock-on effect has been significantly greater, because in our case we export 85 % of our product.
I have actually read the proposals in Council Directive 92/102 and I welcome them.
I know that the farmers in East Anglia, the region I represent in the United Kingdom, have suffered considerably over the BSE crisis and are still suffering from the inadequate way the United Kingdom Government has handled this.
My question is: with regard to the introduction of a required computer database system for Member States, would the Council support financial assistance on a European basis similar to that introduced for the funding support schemes?
I can confirm that the Council recently received a Commission proposal for a set of measures in the beef sector on which the European Parliament has been consulted.
As soon as it receives the European Parliament's opinion the Council will, of course, act swiftly on that proposal.
When these matters are being considered by the Council, I will bring to the attention of the President-in-Office of the Council the concerns expressed by the honourable Member, but I am not in a position to give such a commitment here today.
The Council follows the human rights situation in Turkey with great attention and actively pursues its concerns about violations in this area both in its contacts with the Turkish authorities in the framework of the EU/Turkey political dialogue and in the multilateral dialogue at the OSCE.
It has made it clear to these authorities, and will continue to do so, that observance of the rule of law, of human rights and of fundamental freedoms forms the basis of closer relations between Turkey and the European Union.
The Council is aware of the possibilities offered by the OSCE's Moscow mechanism.
Although it believes that the Moscow mechanism constitutes a valuable instrument in certain cases, the Council has not considered that it was the most appropriate means to address the issue the honourable Member refers to.
The European Union will continue to carefully monitor developments in relation to this situation and to call on Turkey to respect the human rights commitment it has undertaken in the OSCE as well as in other relevant organizations such as the Council of Europe.
As I said in reply to the honourable Member, in practice it is vital for the success of these missions that the state which they intend to visit should cooperate.
The OSCE has substantially developed since the Moscow mechanism was agreed in 1991.
The OSCE parliamentary assembly has also addressed the question of developments in human rights and sent a delegation to Turkey.
So the Moscow mechanism is not an exclusive one and, on balance, it would appear that sending such a delegation without the cooperation of the recipient state would not be advantageous on this occasion.
There are other ways of trying to influence the situation and the Council is doing everything in its power to use those avenues.
Mr President, unfortunately the answer is incomplete.
The question is why the Council is unwilling to apply this special Moscow mechanism procedure, since all else has failed.
And I insist, Mr President, because this evening I had a telegram from Ankara, from the human rights organizations saying that, firstly, there are 150 hunger-strikers in prisons who are in danger of dying, 15 of whom have already been transferred to hospitals and are on their death-beds while the death of others is imminent, and secondly, those organizations are trying to see the Turkish prosecution authorities, to see the detainees and to find a compromise to the conditions so that the hunger-strike can be ended.
I am answering questions here as President-in-Office of the European Union Council of Ministers.
Can I say that the European Union recognizes the need for further improvements and progress in the implementation of human rights and democratic freedoms in Turkey.
We have continued to make it clear to the Turkish authorities that observance of the rule of law and basic liberties is the basis of continued rapprochement between the European Union and Turkey.
The Commission has supported Turkish NGOs and professional organizations promoting human rights for a number of years, including the Human Rights Association, the Human Rights Foundation and the Turkish Medical Association.
The Commission will continue to cooperate and grant aid for various projects aimed at promoting human rights in Turkey.
The report of Amnesty International clearly raises many human rights issues which remain of serious concern to the Council.
Lastly, the Council would support any initiative aimed at investigating allegations of human rights violations and the question of persons reported to have disappeared.
Speaking personally, I would like to see a full, thorough and impartial investigation into the state of those who have disappeared in Turkey, but the question was in relation to the Moscow mechanism and, for the reasons given, I think the views and replies given should stand.
I was among those who, barely a year ago, in December 1995, voted against the customs union.
I have already outlined at great length the moves which the Council is taking in this regard.
If we believe an exercise will work, we will pursue that exercise.
But, in the view of the Council at this moment in time, for the reasons I have stated, we do not see a role for the Council in triggering the Moscow mechanism.
He has announced a referendum on his proposal to be held on 7 November.
The Belarus parliament has responded by calling a rival referendum on 24 November.
The Council shares the concerns expressed by the honourable Member regarding the political situation in Belarus and has made these concerns known to the Belarussian authorities.
The matter was discussed by EU Foreign Ministers at the special European Council in Dublin on 5 October where it was agreed that the Union's concerns about recent negative developments should be made known to the Belarussian authorities.
These concerns were conveyed in a démarche made by the EU ambassadors in Minsk on 14 October.
In addition, it was decided, together with the associated Central and Eastern European countries and Cyprus and Malta, to reiterate these concerns in a declaration made on 18 October last.
This declaration expressed the Union's concern and called on all parties to reach a solution which fully respected the prerogative of Parliament and the constitutional court and democratic principles.
The Council notes that a ruling of the Belarussian constitutional court on 4 November last made clear that only parliament could make a definitive decision on changes to the constitution.
As the Council is given to understand, the proposed national referendum may proceed on 24 November but with the alternative proposals to amend the constitution put only to a consultative, not binding, vote.
As the author is not present, Question No 5 lapses.
However, the honourable Member will be aware that on 29 March last the European Parliament, in co-decision with the Council, adopted a decision relating to the implementation of a common action programme 1996-2000 of promotion, information, education and training in health matters within the framework of action in the public health domain.
This programme aims to promote awareness of risk factors and aspects conducive to health and encourage the adoption of lifestyles beneficial to health.
This programme is implemented by the Commission in close cooperation with the Member States and institutions and organizations active in health promotion, with the assistance of a special advisory committee.
In relation to the latter part of the honourable Member's question, if he puts down a separate question I will try to deal with it.
The presidency agrees with the honourable Member that this is an important issue.
In my own country, the government launched in September a national alcohol policy based on a multi-sectoral approach which marshals a wide range of statutory and non-statutory organizations to work together to reduce the prevalence of alcoholrelated problems in Irish society by emphasizing moderation in alcohol consumption.
Sweden's Treaty of Accession to the European Union envisaged that Sweden could maintain, for a transitional period, quantitative restrictions on the importation of cigarettes and other tobacco products, spirits, wines and beers from other Member States under the conditions set out in Article 26 of Directive 92/12/EEC.
However, in the absence of a Commission proposal to modify these provisions, the Council cannot comment on the honourable Member's question.
The presidency completely understands the reasons underlying the honourable Member's question, but that derogation will run out at the end of December next.
I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that in adopting by codecision a Community programme of action for promotion, information, education and training in the area of public health, the European Parliament and the Council have given particular attention to the problems linked to alcohol abuse and to its health and social consequences.
Mr President, in this debate it is the Swedish membership treaty with the European Union which is important.
It is no secret that the question of design protection for component parts of complex products, such as spare parts for cars, is one of the most controversial issues raised by the proposal for a directive on the legal protection of designs.
The Council hopes to be able to adopt a common position on this proposal in the near future.
In the meantime, the honourable parliamentarian will appreciate that, while the Council is fully aware of the questions at issue, it cannot say anything at this stage which might prejudge its common position.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply, an extremely diplomatic reply which does nothing to clarify the situation.
Commissioner Monti pointed to the Commission's intention to follow the line indicated by Parliament, upholding and supporting the amending clause.
Mr Mitchell is merely stating that the Council intends to solve this problem at some future date, but gives us no indication of whether Ireland intends to make any proposal regarding support for Parliament's and the Commission's opinion, or whether, on the other hand, it intends to defend alternatives which are more favourable to car manufacturers and those with title to the designs.
The Commission's original proposal provided for a derogation whereby the design right could no longer be invoked against such use after a period of three years.
The normal term of design protection under the directive is 25 years.
The Commission considered that for costly, long-lasting, complex products, such as motor vehicles, protection of the design relating to individual parts could exclude or limit competition, creating a captive market in spare parts in the absence of an appropriate derogation.
However, as I pointed out, it is hoped that the Council will soon be in a position to reach such a common position.
I understand the meeting of the internal market is on 26 November and it is hoped to adopt a common position at that Council meeting on that date.
Perhaps he would make a personal comment about the operation of Directive No 1475 that has already been passed.
If that is the experience of a directive already passed into European law, can the President-in-Office please ensure that the interests of the consumers and of small businesses come first when you deliberate on this subject?
I do not want to say or do anything which might upset negotiations which are at a delicate stage and where the Council will endeavour to take a common position within two weeks.
The Council had made clear to the Albanian Government the strong view of the European Union and the ODIHR that the latter should participate in the monitoring of the elections.
We also urged the Albanian Government to take all measures necessary to ensure that the elections were held in a free and fair manner under procedures and conduct that meet acceptable international standards for the democratic process.
The Council has noted that over 300 international observers monitored the elections, including observers from several Member States of the European Union.
While we welcome this initial assessment as a positive step in the right direction, the Council will consider further the final reports on the conduct of the elections from the international monitors, when they are available, before arriving at a conclusion on the acceptability of the elections and their outcome.
The Albanian Government has assured the European Union of its wish to make progress in the area of democratic and constitutional reform.
I am grateful for the answer.
The Council wishes to maintain and deepen relations with Albania.
We consider it appropriate that this progress be encouraged further and assisted through closer contractual relations with the European Union.
The Union first established contractual links with Albania in 1992 and in due course the Commission will submit a draft mandate to the Council for negotiations with Albania regarding a new bilateral agreement.
We wish Albania to understand clearly that the European Union will only be able to continue to develop its political and economic relations with Albania if progress on the introduction of democratic reforms continue to be made.
Mr President, I should like to ask whether it is not the case that the elections in Albania actually confirm the results of the national elections.
For example, consider events in Kosovo.
As the author is not present, Question No 10 lapses.
In reply to the honourable Member's question, I would like to emphasize that I am here as President-in-Office of the Council and that under Article N of the Treaty on European Union the Council is not party to the Intergovernmental Conference responsible for amending the Treaties.
However, speaking in a personal capacity, I would like to tell the House that the presidency's suggested approach, which was the basis for discussion at the Intergovernmental Conference representative meeting of 15 and 16 October, was that the principle of non-discrimination should be strengthened by supplementing the Treaty with a general provision on non-discrimination on grounds such as race, sex, disability and age.
The presidency has also suggested the inclusion in the Treaty of a provision which would allow the Council to take the necessary measures to prohibit discrimination on such grounds.
Mr Mitchell, I feel that the Irish presidency, which is to publish a text relating to the Treaty on the 27th, ought to include this position in the text of the Treaty because you will already be aware that, in this connection, experience has taught us to be cautious if not distrustful.
Please tell me whether the text of the Treaty will include this text you have personally referred to.
Secondly, I just want to put on record that there is no commitment to publish anything on 27 November.
Thirdly, in relation to the honourable Member's question, I was speaking about draft Treaty texts.
So far as the presidency is concerned, we will pursue this in every way we can, but I would remind the House that there are 15 Member States.
Moreover, the Council has recently adopted a new extradition convention.
When ratified by the Member States, this convention will further facilitate extradition arrangements between Member States of the European Union.
This is a matter of grave concern, not only in the United Kingdom, but elsewhere.
It is not only a matter that affects Cindy from Eastenders , it is also a matter that affects people like Robert Hamilton, who is currently in France, originally from Sheffield, who was convicted of murder in 1972, escaped from Sudbury prison in 1984 and has spent the last 12 years moving around Europe constantly evading demands for extradition.
It seems to me that while people can literally get away with murder by fleeing elsewhere in the European Union, our current arrangements are less than fully adequate.
I am satisfied that the 1957 European Convention as supplemented by the new EU convention relating to extradition provides a very good framework for extradition arrangements between Member States in relation to serious offences.
It would not be appropriate for me to comment on the application of the arrangements in any particular case or cases, or by any individual Member State.
I can, however, confirm that the United Kingdom is one of the fourteen Member States to have ratified the 1957 European Convention and it is a signatory to the recently adopted EU convention relating to extradition.
President-in-Office of the Council, I have noted your response and I would be interested to know if you could tell us which Member State has not ratified the convention.
But I am aware, and acknowledge, that the Irish presidency has made one of its priorities the fight against organized crime and drugs and has said that there will be no hiding place within the European Union.
I would like to know what progress you have made under the presidency not only in persuading our European partners that strong extradition arrangements should be the order of the day but in the other aspect of harmonizing penal policy in the various Member States.
I would be very grateful to hear the President-in-Office's comments on the need for the harmonization of sentencing as well as the need for effective extradition arrangements throughout the European Union.
In relation to the first part of his question, the country that has not signed is Belgium.
I think there has been a will on the part of Ministers and, more than that, a will on the part of the Heads of State and Government to make real progress.
I had better clarify the first part of my answer.
Belgium has signed , but has not ratified the Treaty.
In this context, attention is drawn to the provisions of Chapter 3 of the Euratom Treaty and the consequent Community legislation.
In particular, it should be stressed that the recently adopted Council Directive 96/29/Euratom of 13 May 1996, laying down the basic safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public against the dangers arising from ionizing radiation, has greatly reinforced the level of protection.
However, as regards the implementation of the provisions of Articles 35 and 37 of the Euratom Treaty, the Council would recall to the honourable Member that it comes within the Commission's competences.
I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply.
In May 1993, experts appointed by the Commission visited Dounreay and gave it a clean bill of health.
I thank the President-in-Office for his full reply to my colleague Mr Smith's question.
I would also suggest to him that this is not an attack on the nuclear installation programme, it is a question of health and safety which, as he quite rightly pointed out, is uppermost in the minds of the Council and of Members of this Parliament.
In response to the honourable Member's question, I should like to underline that in accordance with Article 126 of the Treaty the Community shall contribute to the development of quality education by encouraging cooperation between Member States and, if necessary, by supporting and supplementing their action while fully respecting the responsibility of the Member States for the content of teaching and the organization of education systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity.
As a result, the organization of education in the Member States is a matter for the competent national authorities.
Under these circumstances the Council has no competence in the matter raised by the honourable Member.
Speaking on behalf of the presidency, I would add that I am aware of concerns in a number of Member States about this issue.
Despite a resolution passed by this House on 25 September 1995, on 5 December 1995 contracts of non-Italian foreign language teachers at Naples expired, amongst them one of my constituents.
I am aware of the difficulties, as I said, being expressed by these lecturers, some of whom are from my own country, who have made representations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Education and myself.
As part of preparations for the World Trade Organization ministerial conference in Singapore, the Council has proceeded to examine the question of the promotion of internationally recognized core labour standards in the context of the multilateral trading system on the basis of a communication by the Commission.
In this respect, the Council has stressed that in addressing this issue the WTO ministerial conference should make clear that it rejects all attempts to undermine the competitive advantage enjoyed by developing countries in the matter of wage rates.
The conference should also stress the importance of positive measures to assist developing countries develop their institutional capacity to monitor compliance with core labour standards.
I would like to thank the Council for the answer to the question.
It is important, by means of a dialogue, to achieve changes to what we regard as unacceptable conditions in other countries.
I suppose we could all think of hypothetical situations to illustrate the difficulties posed by the level of unemployment in the Union.
On 29 October the General Affairs Council agreed that the basis of the EU approach on the subject at the Singapore conference would be the following: ' The EU considers that the Singapore conference should address the following issues: the role of trade liberalization in increasing living standards worldwide and, in this context, the importance that World Trade Organization members attach to the efforts of the ILO to promote the better definition and universal observance of core labour standards.
It should also underline the importance of positive measures to assist developing countries to develop their institutional capacity to monitor compliance with core labour standards and to increase the educational opportunities available to children.' That was what the General Affairs Council on 29 October agreed as the basis of the European Union approach on the subject of the Singapore conference.
An investigation of forced labour practices in Burma in the context of the European Union's Generalized System of Preferences has been under way since January of this year.
The Commission has received submissions on the case and hearings have been held.
The report on the investigation is expected early in 1997.
The Council of Ministers can be expected to take an early decision on any recommendations contained in the Commission report with regard to the continued application of the benefits of the GSP to Burma.
The threat to Aung San Suu Kyi, which we heard about today, is just part of the repression from the government there.
Frankly, companies in the European Union, such as Total, have blood on their hands because they are supporting this repressive regime.
I understand the requirements of the European regulations but I make a plea that Council considers the earliest possible action and communicates its severe anger not only to the authorities in Rangoon but to the European companies which are supporting them.
I wish to assure him that the common Council position, adopted on 28 October, makes provision for further restrictive measures against Burma to be considered and in this context the presidency will continue to monitor developments, including the implementation of the common position, and report regularly to the Council on this matter.
Member States have been consulted by the Commission on the possible introduction of provisional protective measures on footwear from China, Indonesia and Thailand.
If I could repeat, the Council does not have any proposals from the Commission and the honourable Member may well obtain more detailed information on the up-to-date position if she places a question to the Commission.
The European Union was prepared to take all necessary measures in order to express its absolute condemnation of this arrest.
I can join with the honourable Member in expressing absolute condemnation of this arrest and arrests of this kind.
The Council is fully alert to the importance of promoting the cultural identity of the peoples of Europe through the medium of cinema.
On 10 July 1995 and 22 December 1995 two Council decisions on the MEDIA II programme were adopted.
Particular emphasis is given in the programme to small countries or regions with less widely-spoken languages and to actively support linguistic diversity of audiovisual works.
Another aim of the programme is to assist in the development of an independent production industry.
Article 2 of the programme states that the programme must work towards respect for European linguistic and cultural diversity, enhancing European audiovisual heritage, the development of potential in countries and regions with a low capacity for audiovisual production and/or a restricted geographical and linguistic area, the development of an independent production and distribution sector especially of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Support is also offered for vocational training in these industries with a particular emphasis on regions where audiovisual production is low or where the geographical and linguistic area is restricted.
The assignment of ECU 310m over five years to the MEDIA II programme represents a significant increase in resources over those assigned to the MEDIA I programme.
The Commission will present a mid-term review of the effectiveness of the programme to the European Parliament, the Council and the Economic and Social Committee.
Finally, as the honourable Member will be aware, it is the Council's view that in order to safeguard the important differences between the languages and cultures within and between Member States, the political direction in the field of culture must respect the principle of subsidiarity.
Consequently, the MEDIA II management committee gives both the Member States and the associated states a role in monitoring and providing inputs into the operation of the programme.
Mr President, I should first like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council warmly for the completeness of his answer to my question.
However, I would like to note, and I believe the President-inOffice will agree with me, that American cinema and television productions nevertheless account for over 60 % of the programmes broadcast by the most basic audiovisual media in Europe, and of course, of the films shown in Europe, particularly in the smaller countries.
This is a situation that many would say is unacceptable, because it tends to impose the American way of life and American culture on Europe, which has for countless years been distinguished for its cultural characteristics, a thing which must certainly be preserved.
We will certainly await the Commission's report on the results of implementing MEDIA II and we shall certainly be wondering whether, among all those programmes, and indeed with action by the Member States, we are in a position to reverse the situation somewhat and protect European culture.
If I may say so, the Irish cinema is 100 years old this year and our recent experience has been very beneficial.
We have also launched this year Telefís na Gaeilge , an all-Irish-speaking television station.
I mention that particularly as someone from a relatively small state with a minority of all-Irish speakers, although the Irish language is not a minority language in Ireland and is the first official language of the country, with many people who have some words of Irish in general use.
We are committed to deepening our relations with this country.
At the same time the European Union attaches great importance to the promotion and respect of human rights in Tunisia.
This agreement establishes a political dialogue which allows both parties to discuss openly a range of political issues, including human rights.
Furthermore, it includes a human rights clause which stipulates that bilateral relations as well as the provisions of the agreement itself shall be based on respect for human rights and democratic principles which guide their domestic and international policies and constitute an essential element of the agreement.
I might also recall that Tunisia has made a solemn political commitment to the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and the promotion of human rights and the development of democratic institutions are essential elements of the Barcelona Process.
On a number of occasions recently the Council has raised the question of human rights in its contacts with the Tunisian authorities.
The Council will continue to raise the question of human rights and fundamental freedoms both in general terms and with respect to specific cases in its contacts with Tunisia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us today a report on the opinion delivered by the European Parliament on a Commission document whose purpose is to define the conditions under which it might be possible to organize an extension of the codecision procedure, regarded by the European Parliament as a fundamental necessity.
This document proposes linking this extension of the codecision procedure to the definition of a number of objective criteria for legislative acts.
If this parliament decides to support the Commission document, it is clear that we would be compromising the Commission, and that if the Commission goes to the Council secure in the support of Parliament, it seems to me that, as things stand at present, this in itself would be an almost sufficient condition to cast suspicion on this document.
The Commission could have said: we will extend codecision, for example, to all decisions taken by a qualified majority in the Council.
The fact is, Commissioner, and I must give you credit for it, you are proposing something more ambitious, something neater, a partial attempt to create a hierarchy of standards, because what you are saying is that what must be covered by the codecision procedure is the law, and the law can be defined by a number of criteria which you list in your document.
Four criteria which are common-sense criteria, perhaps debatable in some cases but common-sense criteria nonetheless.
I have not time enough to list all the measures which seem to us to be too restrictive, but they exist.
Extending, or attempting to extend, the legislative function is a political struggle, taking account also of the fact - a fact which I must stress - that, contrary to what may sometimes be thought or said, the political balance of the codecision procedure is a very positive one, even as regards efficiency.
Overall, then, a positive relationship between the European Parliament and the Commission in this area is a possibility.
But we also need to have some measure of trust, because without trust everything falls apart; so, as it were, we need to have confidence in the political struggle and in the objectives of the political struggle that we are pursuing.
Next, we added to the list an area which the Commission had ignored, industry: industrial policy measures that are general in scope and have to do with coordination between industrial and macroeconomic policies which is another essential element in the development of a European democracy.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this struggle to enhance the legislative power of this unique institution, which directly represents the citizens of Europe, is a legitimate one.
Mr President, the report produced by Mr Bourlanges and Mr De Giovanni on the scope of application of the codecision procedure bears the austere, measured stamp of deep reflection, but it also reveals genuine political determination.
The heart of the problem is indeed the democratization of the European Union.
We have a lot to say about the rights of the citizen, his feeling that our activities are remote from his interest, the doubts he has about our role and that of the European institutions - in a word, about European policies in general.
In that light, the position of the Commission is essential, as is the position of the European Parliament, as indeed is our determination, even our fervour, and the fervour with which we shall seek - or at least we can hope- to impose our point of view on the Intergovernmental Conference.
When we discuss things with the Council we are dealing with a presidency, but it is a paralysed presidency which, when the subject of codecision is raised, has to go ringing around the capitals of Europe to check the real position of the governments, of the 'European nonUnion' .
In this sense, there is a real political problem as far as effective codecision is concerned.
Premise number two is that codecision must be extended at least to all legislative Council decisions reached by a qualified majority.
The ELDR Group endorses both premises and is, moreover, in harmony with the tenor of this excellent report.
Finally I should like to stress how important it is that Commission and President should adopt a common line on majority voting in the Council and codecision by our Parliament.
Mr President, my intervention will be somewhat at odds with what seems to be the prevailing consensus in this House, because I am not going to use the same kind of language or make the same kind of references as previous speakers.
But this issue has not been clearly presented to the public.
Not only that, but those who are trying to push us in that direction are also involving us in another system, a hybrid system lacking in any logic, comprising a parliament which would not respect the fundamental principle of one man, one vote, and which would nevertheless have the right to take legislative decisions.
If we are losing our way to some extent, in today's Europe, it is because we lack such links, this field of popular representation which we must bring closer both to European citizens and to decision-making fields.
It would therefore seem that, once again, the Commission has, when all is said and done, made do with issuing a statement which, when applied in operational terms, is not really a solution at all.
Mr President, I should simply like to say what Fernand Herman would certainly have said if he was here, and give an answer, in particular, to my colleague and friend Mr Berthu.
We are proposing one thing, an important thing: that the decisions taken within the framework of the European Union should be taken democratically, by agreement between the Council of Ministers and ourselves as the representatives of the European people, the European peoples.
Mr President and fellow colleagues, I would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the co-rapporteurs for the conscientious and detailed work they have put in in writing their report on the Commission's document.
We did so, on the one hand, within the terms of the mandate given us by the Treaty which makes reference to areas of jurisdiction such as civil protection, tourism or energy - where we had an obligation under the Treaty - and, in addition, in connection with two specific topics, namely home affairs and justice, on which we drew up an indepth report, and codecision, which we regarded as crucial.
But, above all, this is a procedure whose field of application was, in our view, relatively limited and somewhat inconsistent and this is why we were of the opinion that it was necessary to introduce a number of important and significant amendments.
Therefore, the topic we addressed was how to extend codecision whilst respecting two criteria: the criterion of democracy and that of efficiency.
I support the idea of dual legitimacy, that of the States, represented in the significance of the role of national parliaments, and that of the peoples, represented in this House.
At any rate, I would like to inform you that we are very pleased to accept any criticisms you may have because we are taking due note of them and intend to improve our own text on the basis of honourable Members' various interventions -which we greatly appreciate - and, regardless of whether the opinion and criticism are positive or negative, we shall attempt to build on them.
What we did was to apply four criteria and we were told that these criteria can probably be supplemented and improved.
We are in full agreement on this point and have introduced this very criterion into the Commission's document in connection with a subject area which we regard as of fundamental importance: everything which constitutes an attempt to apply a Community approach to the third pillar, especially some of its fundamental elements such as those relating to visas, asylum procedures, external border control, immigration matters and cooperation in customs matters.
The Commission has demonstrated its concern about this matter in the report.
Furthermore, I would also like to say that there are a number of criteria set forth in your most valuable document which have been duly noted and which I support and which will be included in our own patrimony.
I believe, in fact, that it is logical to apply to this Treaty the same principles we wish to apply to the Community Treaty, but I wonder and would ask honourable Members whether the Conference will agree to initiate discussion on the subject of this Treaty.
My hope is that you and I will not only have read this report but that you have also listened to what the co-rapporteurs have said in this Chamber.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 12 noon tomorrow.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in June of last year the Council adopted a resolution on minimum guarantees for asylum procedures.
A resolution which had as its main objective to harmonize asylum procedures in all the Member States.
The nature of the refugee question has, for a wide variety of reasons, changed since 1951, the year in which the Geneva Convention on refugees came into being.
Disasters and wars, oppression or famine, all these things have markedly increased the number of people who flee from their own countries.
The Council's resolution in 1995, aimed at harmonizing asylum policy, was thus a welcome move.
The legal status of this kind of resolution is also unclear.
Thus the principle of the safe third country puts pressure on the right of non-refoulement and the use of a list of safe countries of origin jeopardizes the individual's right to have his request for asylum reviewed.
Consequently my group believes that this resolution cannot remain as it stands.
Together with a resolution of the European Parliament, European Commissioner Gradin's proposal for a speedy convention on asylum may help to bring about the change we would like.
Lastly, a comment on the amendments we shall be voting on tomorrow.
Resolute adherence to these is also advocated by UNHCR and NGOs such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the European Committee on Asylum and Refugees.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, today's debate on the resolution on minimum guarantees for asylum procedures comes a year and a half too late.
Asylum policy is one of the most important aspects of the third pillar, because it is closely related to human rights, for example the right to life and health.
Therefore, under Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, Parliament should have been consulted before the Council resolution was adopted, and its views should have been taken into consideration accordingly.
The present resolution essentially pursues the objective of guaranteeing the same procedures for asylum seekers in all Member States.
Because of these numerous exemptions, there is a risk of 'asylum dumping' within the European Union.
In the case of the apparently safe country of origin, this may mean a danger to life and limb.
In so-called safe third countries, there is not always a guarantee that the asylum seeker will be admitted to the asylum procedure.
I should therefore have liked to ask the Council presidency, had it been present, for its opinion on the fact that the German Constitutional Court, in its asylum decision of 14 May this year, gave the Federal Government a considerable amount of discretion when it comes to determining which countries are safe countries of origin.
So what does the presidency think of the fact that the Constitutional Court does not make it compulsory for the German Government to consider all the information and to take a comprehensible decision, when it is considering the question of whether a certain country respects and defends, de jure and de facto , human dignity and human rights, in other words, whether it can be regarded as free from persecution within the meaning of asylum law?
Unaccompanied minors are particularly in need of our protection, and they also need to be given an opportunity of submitting asylum applications of their own.
Mr President, I am of course very glad that the conclusions of the Committee on Women's rights have been adopted, if not verbatim then at least in substance, by the majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
For example, the Committee on Women's Rights welcomes the Council resolution on minimum guarantees for asylum procedures, because it represents an important step towards a definition by the Member States of common procedural criteria for the treatment of asylum seekers.
We are therefore moving in the right direction, towards the standardization of asylum policy in the European Union.
I am also very pleased to find that, with one exception, Amendment No 7, there are no amendments that would weaken the content of paragraphs 23 to 31 of the motion for a resolution, which summarized my conclusions.
And I thank the members of my group who, in their Amendment No 32, have incorporated the second conclusion of my opinion, which does not appear in the text adopted by our committee.
You therefore see before you a very gratified draftsman of an opinion, who naturally hopes that the governments and parliaments of the Member States will take due account of these amendments when the time comes for them to apply the minimum guarantees for asylum procedures.
Women must be able to apply for asylum in their own right, and full legal status must be granted to women to prevent their losing their rights in the event of a husband's death, or divorce or separation.
Chapter 6 of the Maastricht Treaty contains the provision that Parliament should be consulted, admittedly only on the most important aspects of European internal policy.
We must bear in mind the fact that, with this report by Hedy d'Ancona, we have touched a raw nerve in European policy.
The question arises as to how the European Union, as a community that declares itself to be not only in favour of the completion of the internal market and unlimited profits for large companies, but also in favour of making basic rights a reality in the world at large, and indeed states that these are its objectives, intends in future - even if only at a very minimalist level - to handle a fundamental right that implies an obligation, on the part of national and also supranational authorities, to protect people from persecution and not to turn away from its doors people who fear for their lives and limbs, on the grounds of their origin, race, religion, skin colour, or ethnic origin, when the Union itself is bursting with wealth.
Safe countries of origin are a very important point in the debate that we have to hold.
We cannot have a situation in which safe countries of origin are defined only by the governments of Member States and only on the basis of their own individual tactical, domestic-policy or diplomatic considerations.
Otherwise there cannot be any such list, and it must also be subject to democratic scrutiny, following the communitization of asylum law - if possible by the European Parliament.
Since the Dublin Agreement, Member States have mutually recognized one another's asylum decisions.
So an asylum seeker who is accepted as a political refugee in Germany is also accepted as such in France.
For us to be able to accept such a decision in Germany, we must, of course, also be able to have a say in the matter of the grounds on which a person is accepted or rejected in France.
In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we now need, in Europe, at least a harmonization of the essential features of both material asylum law and also of asylum-procedure law.
In any case, I, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, wholeheartedly welcome this Council recommendation.
Essentially, there are three concepts missing from the Council recommendation, namely safe third countries, safe countries of origin and the treatment of manifestly unfounded asylum applications.
There can be no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that without the application of this legal instrument there can be no humane asylum law in Europe.
For this reason, we would be well advised to support these three concepts as well as the Council recommendation.
The Dutch presidency will have to deal with the harmonization of asylum procedures in the near future.
Mr President, I have nothing against Commissioner Kinnock, but I do regret the fact that Commissioner Gradin, who holds the relevant portfolio, is not here for this debate.
The resolution now before us describes the Council decision on minimum guarantees for asylum procedures as 'a good starting point' and then goes on the criticize it.
But even in this case the judge must be able to test the implications of expelling the asylum-seeker if he is indeed to be expelled.
As rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets my fellow-member of the ELDR, Mr Brinkhorst, suggested that three budget lines be created for refugees, for displaced persons who have temporarily found refuge in the European Union and for refugee policy in general.
Mr President, the Council resolution on minimum guarantees for asylum procedure has prompted reservations and concerns on the part of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the European Council on Refugees and Amnesty International.
The report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs proposes a number of amendments which offer additional guarantees.
We particularly welcome the fact that it incorporates our amendment calling for the application of the Geneva Convention to persons at risk from certain groups when the authorities in their country are unable to provide them with protection.
This is an example of how even EU refugee policy is attempting, by using quasi alternative conventions, to evade the conventions that are currently in force, such as the Geneva Convention on Refugees, or the Human Rights Convention.
Once again, Hedy, thank you for your report.
I acknowledged only the two great matadors in this debate.
Far be it from me to fail to say hello to Wilmya, or to wish Anna good evening, or Ilona or Michèle.
In Spain we would have said 'torero ' .
I would also like to join in previous speakers' denunciation of the lack of respect which the Council has shown in not consulting this House when drawing up this resolution.
The first relates to the debate on the 'communitization' of the right to asylum.
Whenever the Council tackles questions relating to emigration and asylum, it demonstrates the deep contradiction which characterizes the entire European integration process in third-pillar policies because we are all, including the Council, aware that these problems affect everyone and can only be dealt with effectively from a common standpoint.
My second point, Mr President, focuses on the concept of 'guarantee' as an element of legal security.
Guarantees have to take priority, they have to be effective in protecting those whose application for the right of asylum is founded.
Founded , Mrs Roth; founded , Mr Schulz.
The body of criteria which this resolution establishes regarding the three basic questions commented upon in earlier interventions - the safe third country, the country of origin and manifestly unfounded applications - is therefore a major advance whose importance it would be wrong to play down.
The leading role played by Europe, Mr President, in connection with this awful question of asylum is based on both a confirmation of human rights as the cornerstone of our culture and on the guarantees which our legislation provides in order for them to be exercised.
Mr President, the motion for a resolution on the right to asylum which is the subject of the d'Ancona report is an expression of the Council's willingness to lay down mechanisms to protect refugees.
The question is whether, despite our adhering to the content of the resolution, this is anything more than willingness.
With the resolution in our hands, we might ask: how can we guarantee appropriate protection which also has common support and respects the humanitarian traditions of this part of the world and the 1951 Geneva Convention when there are no binding legal provisions and, moreover, Member States are allowed wide-ranging recourse to exceptions under their national legislation?
Moreover, the introduction of lists of safe countries of origin constitutes a breach of the duty to assess every asylum application on an individual basis, prevents detailed consideration of an applicant's status and breaks with the legal principle that rights are individual in nature.
When all is said and done, this instrument is no barrier in law against xenophobic prejudices.
Mr President, defining the procedures for the submission of applications for asylum is a very pressing problem which certainly calls for careful attention by the Union.
It seems to us to be unacceptable not only because the European Parliament was not consulted in advance but also because its application is removed from parliamentary and judicial control, and because it does not impose any obligation and its legal validity derives solely from the fact that it originates in conclusions reached by the Executive Committee of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
We are also firmly of the opinion that asylum must be granted to those women and girls who come from countries which use mutilation, rape or sexual violence as a weapon of war or follow a cultural tradition involving savage persecution on the basis of sex.
Hence my question: in the European Union, is asylum still a right for the persecuted, and a duty for the Member States?
And there is a grave danger that, once again, this alarm call will fall on deaf ears.
In the same spirit, you refused to accept the concept of a safe country, or you don't like it, whether it be a third country or the country of origin, hence the virtually automatic nature of manifestly unfounded applications.
And even in such clear cases, you want to impose the suspensive effect of an appeal against a deportation order.
If the report were to fail to take account of these points, I - and other Members with me - would have the greatest difficulty in approving it.
The Council's draft resolution, although well-intentioned, suffers from, I feel, a fundamental defect, making it worth no more than the paper it is written on, since the resolution contains no legal provisions binding on the Member States, thereby granting them recourse to exceptions under their national legislation.
I therefore believe it important to adopt the European Parliament's resolution which is, in my opinion, an excellent point of departure and I welcome, with great satisfaction, the proposal to call upon the Commission to submit a draft agreement on asylum which harmonizes national legislation and which, in any case, guarantees easy access, legal aid, reliable investigation of the facts, assessment by specialized bodies, the opportunity to lodge an appeal and treatment which takes account of the special status of women.
Situations like that which occurred last July, when a number of asylum-seekers were expelled in breach of the most elementary fundamental rights, must never be repeated within the European Union.
I would also like to point out that the European Union should reflect on the contribution of its economic relations to the upholding of pseudo-democratic regimes, through economic aid and customs agreements, and to point out the paradox of a considerable number of asylum applications being lodged by citizens of such countries.
Finally, this House should begin to recognize the fact that the asylum-granting process faces a serious problem in the form of immigration on political and social grounds and must therefore opt decisively for a genuine Community foreign policy which can help to solve the basic problem we are all familiar with.
I am also grateful to all those who have contributed to this debate.
As the House will know, the entry into force of the European Union Treaty raised expectations that cooperation in justice and home affairs policies would be intensified.
Consistent with that, the Brussels European Council of 1993 adopted a programme for 1994 which, among other things, requested the Council of Ministers to adopt joint action on minimum guarantees for asylum procedures.
After a year-and-a-half of discussions, a resolution on the issue was finally agreed by the Council of Ministers in June 1995.
That failure was clearly not in accordance with the Commission's interpretation of Article 6 of the Treaty which plainly states that the European Parliament must be consulted on the principal aspects of activities in justice and home affairs.
We are, of course, conscious of the fact that there is a need for different forms of cooperation in the third pillar area and we also, obviously, support pragmatic solutions.
But we remain convinced that so-called 'soft law' instruments are rarely appropriate when fundamental principles of justice are at stake.
We particularly welcome the clear affirmation of the rights of asylum-seekers during the procedure, the right of appeal and the right to remain in the host country during the asylum and appeal procedure.
All these provisions reflect the basic principles that are needed in a fair asylum procedure.
First, many exceptions have been introduced in the text in order to cover the variety of situations that exist in domestic legislation.
The result, however, is that the document looks more like a description of the current situation in Member States and less like an attempt to develop a common approach.
That, in our view, is, to say the very least, highly regrettable.
I must say that the Commission shares the concern of the rapporteur and several Members who have spoken in this debate on these issues.
I must also say that the criticism of this recommendation provides a good example of the reasons why the Commission believes that cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs must be improved.
The same kind of problems are also found in many other areas of justice and home affairs cooperation as well.
The Commission has consequently called for the Intergovernmental Conference to ensure that there is a radical overhaul in provision for third pillar cooperation.
We have proposed, for example, that the goals for cooperation in these sensitive areas must be defined more clearly.
The House will be familiar with the Commission's opinion that seven out of the nine subject areas covered by Chapter 6 of the Treaty of the European Union should consequently be moved to the first pillar and that only police cooperation and cooperation in criminal matters should remain with the third pillar structure.
The vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow.
The legal basis of the action plan is certainly Article 129a of the Treaty, which of course does not exclude the possibilities opened up by Article K.1 of the Treaty on European Union.
The proposal for a directive we are dealing with at the moment is an important directive, despite the fact that its objective is or may appear to be limited.
I believe this is wide-ranging in scope and I therefore would like to congratulate the Commission on its initiative.
The work of this rapporteur and of the relevant committee was to support the directive, not attempt to create a new directive, and we restricted ourselves to the specific field of providing access to justice for representative or professional organizations for consumers and attempting to improve what it was possible to improve upon.
And, added to this, the possibility of Europe-wide organizations also having access to justice.
I feel that the committee work in this connection has given a result and will henceforth make it possible for all directives on one and the same subject to be incorporated rapidly or virtually automatically into the field of action of the directive we are approving.
All that remains for me to do is to thank the Commission, because working with the Commission has been most agreeable.
That was the headline that appeared in a magazine that is delivered free to more than 3 million German households.
In their own country, consumers know their rights or else they can find out, free of charge (or very cheaply) from their nearest consumer organization.
In 1993, the EU Commission, in its Green Paper, had already pointed out these problems and, after consulting all the interested parties, including the European Parliament, it drew up its conclusions.
So today we are discussing a proposal for a directive on cross-border actions for an injunction and also an action plan on consumer access to justice and the settlement of consumer disputes.
We cannot have a situation in which a German company with an accommodation address in France causes harm to consumers by its misleading advertising, but the French consumer organization cannot bring an action for injunction, because the advertising originates in Germany, so the German consumer organization tries to bring the case to court but is told that an action for an injunction is not possible because no German consumers have been adversely affected.
I believe that this is not how the normal consumer sees European unification and the internal market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Europe are first and foremost consumers.
This is a subject that is particularly important for the European Union, because it is only by pursuing an appropriate consumer policy that the Union can prove that its policies are of direct benefit to its citizens.
The fact that this need is recognized is reflected in Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty.
This task is being performed both by the communication from the Commission concerning an action plan, which is what we are discussing at the moment, and by the proposal for a directive on injunctions for the protection of consumers' interests.
Both of these proposals attempt to achieve optimum consumer protection while strictly adhering to the principle of subsidiarity, since they do not encroach upon the procedural law of individual Member States.
The report improves upon the Commission proposal in that it places more emphasis on the need to take into account the situations in individual Member States regarding procedural law - situations that are still very different -, without, however, losing sight of the objective of a uniform level of consumer protection.
As far as the Commission's action plan is concerned, it was generally agreed that the European Parliament would not be satisfied simply with evaluating this action plan, but also wanted its own suggestions incorporated into the plan.
Mr President, I put down two amendments on two things about which I would appreciate the Commission's views.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I should like to thank the Commission for its initiative in favour of protecting consumer interests in transfrontier disputes.
I should also like to thank the two rapporteurs for all that they have done towards the progress and further clarification of this initiative.
In my opinion this proposal is contrary to the spirit and letter of EU law, which allows regulations to be tightened up in line with EU law, but must not go against this tendency by, for example, minimizing the opportunities for group actions.
Therefore, in my opinion, Article 129 must be added, which interprets consumers' interests in a wider sense, rather than merely in relation to the smooth operation of the market.
Consumers' interests and consumers' rights, Mr Florio, whether sacrosanct or not, are still citizens' rights.
And now, in this short time granted me by the absence of my colleague, Mr Añoveros, I would like to step back from my position as a representative of European citizens and speak to you, at this late-evening gathering which lends itself to confidences, as an ordinary citizen.
It is my belief that these two topics are important: both Commission action for consumer access to justice and this proposal for a directive.
Only when this has been achieved, when this has been established on the basis of a workable criterion, will we ordinary citizens have the impression that the European Union, Mr President, Madam Commissioner, is anything more than one enormous market-place.
I would conclude by saying that I have spoken as a citizen and not as a consumer, because I believe that the consumer is simply a market variable, buying or selling his capacity to work, and the citizen is this consumer assisted by the Law and protected by law and, for this precise reason, capable of having recourse to the courts in order to exercise these rights and to take advantage of the protection granted by this law.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by thanking you for accepting the highly innovative spirit of these two proposals, which admittedly have only a limited ambition in this context but which I believe are innovative in their approach to the citizen and the attitude to the law they represent.
As a final point on this aspect of the matter, paraphrasing President Delors, as it were, may I also say that the European Union does not always succeed in providing itself with the resources to achieve its own ambitions.
As far as the amendments are concerned, the Commission is in such agreement with the spirit of the report that, give or take one or two formal amendments, it accepts virtually all of them; specifically, 20 of the 25 proposed by Parliament.
I think I should, nevertheless, offer some explanation regarding the few amendments which the Commission feels unable to accept.
I refer in particular to Amendments Nos 5, 6, 12, 19 and 25, the only ones which the Commission feels it cannot accept.
In particular, with reference to Amendment No 12, I would like, as a former colleague, to draw your attention to the paradoxical consequences which would result from acceptance of the amendment as presently worded.
Forgive my frankness, but to accept a situation where the legal remedies provided by this directive would apply - and I quote the amendment - ' in so far as the legal system of the Member State concerned so permits' is, frankly, equivalent to completely destroying the sense of Article 2, and hence of the directive as a whole.
As regards Amendments Nos 6, 19 and 25, which relate to consumer organizations at European level, it seems to me that these amendments would introduce an obligation which would be incompatible with the principle of proportionality, or in the present case with the recitals of the proposal for a directive.
I invite honourable Members simply to open the Yellow Pages of the Brussels telephone directory, but to save you the trouble I can tell you that my staff have counted 600 European consumer organizations there.
As far as Amendment No 5 is concerned, it seems to me impossible to accept it because what discriminates against national organizations may be certain existing national legal systems rather than the case law which those legal systems are required to apply, in the absence of Community regulations capable of solving the problem.
Overall, subject to those reflections and despite a few discrepancies, the Commission is pleased to find itself in such agreement with the European Parliament.
It seems to me that, as things stand at the moment, this may be a very acceptable first step.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, first of all, a genetically modified foodstuff (Monsanto's GMO soya beans) has been authorized for human consumption without any special labelling!
The existing loopholes in controls and security, not only in the case of soya beans but also in the case of future applications to place GMO foodstuffs on the market, are disastrous and scandalous.
It is always a problem for those who take part in the last debate, but the Conference of Presidents in their wisdom have given me 30 minutes for this debate and 37 and a half minutes of speaking time.
Mr President, the principles of precaution and prevention regarding the environment in the European Union and the health of our citizens are enshrined in the Treaty.
If I shower a plant with pesticide, so that all other plants die, then that is certainly not the way towards the sustainable development of our agriculture and our environment.
Mr President, what we must avoid in debates like this on biotechnology is allowing emotion to prevail over reason.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a pharmacist, I should like to express may opinion, in connection with these questions, on the protection of human health - something that has been mentioned frequently.
The genetically modified soya bean produced by Monsanto has been approved under Directive 90/220 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms.
Scientific tests on the soya bean have shown that this product is harmless to human health and to the environment, and that it does not cause any increased allergic reaction, compared with the traditional soya bean.
The much-quoted problem of allergenicity can be traced back to tests on a different species of soya bean, in which a Brazil nut protein was introduced into the soya beans.
In March of this year, Parliament accepted six amendments.
Mr President, can I just preface my remarks by saying first of all, as you pointed out yourself, that a period has been allocated for this debate which is shorter than the amount of speaking time allocated to the honourable Members who rightly want to intervene.
In answer to the questions, according to Article 4 of Directive 90/220, Member States are responsible for ensuring that the competent authority organizes inspections and other control measures as appropriate to ensure compliance with that directive.
The directive stipulates that before a genetically modified product is placed on the market an assessment of the potential risks for human health and the environment should be carried out.
The Commission is further reassured by the safety provisions of the directive, in particular Articles 11, 6 and 16 which ensure that any new information which indicates the existence of any risks that were previously unforeseen will be forwarded and the consent will be modified or revoked accordingly.
In April this year, as the House will know, the Commission took a decision relating to the placing on the market of the genetically modified soyabeans for certain uses.
The Commission adopted its decision on the placing on the market of the Monsanto soyabeans following a favourable opinion by the regulatory committee established by Directive 90/220.
The Commission has already recognized the concerns of an increasing number of consumers with regard to genetically modified foodstuffs by submitting a proposal for a regulation on novel foods.
Mr President, consumers are extremely anxious about the food that they are being presented with in the shops.
There are many arguments about whether or not these new genetically modified foods are desirable or necessary.
Some of the arguments about ethics and food safety have already been debated here in the passage through this House of the novel foods directive.
Now we hear from the press that the Commission is about to approve a controversial strain of genetically modified maize, developed by Ciba Geigy, apparently to defuse a potential transatlantic trade war.
I have the greatest sympathy with the position of the Commission today on many counts.
We have handled our business very badly in Parliament.
The consumer has every right to be informed of any risks inherent in the new technology of genetic manipulation.
Like other members of my group I do not agree with point 3 of the joint resolution that measures are needed to keep all foods containing genetically modified organisms separate from other foods.
Nor do I agree with point 8 about labelling.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, consumers have a right to information about the use of genetically modified organisms in their food.
Genetic engineering is also a science of the future, and it is estimated that approximately 8 % of new future job opportunities could be created by this technology.
Labelling provides additional security for the consumer.
He can decide for himself whether or not he wants to use the product that has previously been scientifically tested.
We know that the use of genetic engineering can also help to reduce the amount of pesticides used as well as the use of fertilizers, and this in turn would bring environmental advantages, in the shape of improved soil and water quality.
Mr President, a few months ago the Commission agreed to the marketing of genetically modified maize, and only the reaction of the Member States persuaded it to retract.
Mrs Bjerregaard called a press conference and announced that the scientific committees need more time to reach a decision.
That is my question.
Mr President, this argument has been much discussed in recent weeks, and I think our apprehension is not so much about the soya bean problem alone, I think the fact is that we realize that that decision opens the door to common problems.
Commissioner Kinnock, if it is not felt necessary or possible to ensure separate labelling for the genetically modified soya bean, we should be told why, in clear, transparent terms.
Let all the information be disclosed to Parliament, let it be stated what inquiries were conducted by the national authority, what the opinion of the European Commission is and, possibly, what authorization procedures were followed in the United States.
Secondly, I believe it is very important to expedite the conclusion of the conciliation procedure on new food products or ingredients, which is still open, because I believe that this too may help to provide a very important framework of rules and procedures which are clear and transparent for all.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now the soya bean has been regarded as an ideal ingredient in organic and health food.
We always talk about the responsible consumer.
In the last 40 years the human race has doubled in size, and food production has risen in the same proportion.
But now, thanks to the Commission's decision, we shall not know whether the soya beans are produced normally or genetically modified, because the labels won't tell us, because that isn't allowed.
In the case of soya, the new bean is resistant to the pesticide Roundup, which includes glycophate.
Lastly - and I diverge somewhat - what a coincidence that this debate is taking place just as the United Nations Food Summit is starting in Rome!
I will not pretend that my responses will cover all the interesting points raised, but I hope that by picking out a few, I will be able to relate to many of the issues that have come before the House tonight.
The Commission recognizes the importance of labelling and intends to discuss the issue in the context of a proposal for a revision of this directive.
I respond by saying the consent for the placing on the market of these soya beans has been granted in accordance with the procedures foreseen by Directive 92/220.
The information supplied by certain Members of this House refers to the allergenic potential of soya beans in general.
But that is not a new element since it is well known that all soya beans can be responsible for allergies in some, individual human beings.
Furthermore, the Commission is not aware of any new information which provides evidence of potential adverse effects on human health from the release of the Monsanto soya beans.
The Council Directive 96/32 of May 1996 has set a maximum limit of 20 ppm of glysophate residues on soya beans.
The vote will be taken at 12 noon tomorrow. (The sitting was closed at 12.15 a.m.)
