The Minutes do not accurately reflect my concern which was that the document (COM(97)0247) made a number of extreme statements about the use of nickel coins, saying it had important consequences for health and so on.
But here we are about to insist that nickel is not used in the new euro coins.
We have fifteen days to stop the European Union - the Council, the Member States, this Parliament and the Commission - making itself look very silly.
Mr Coates, it is a very serious matter but it is not a matter on the Agenda today.
I will not have a debate on the matter.
Thank you very much, Mr Janssen van Raay.
Mr President, this is about the same problem.
State of the Union and the Commission's annual programme for 1998 The next item is the debate on the state of the Union including the main policy priorities of the Commission's annual programme for 1998.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today we are holding one of the most important debates in the life of any democratic parliament: the debate on the state of the nation, or in this case, the state of the Union.
Indeed, it is appropriate to assess this programme, in due course, in the light of the main policy priorities that will determine the Community's political action over the next few years.
At the end of the day, the legislative programme is only part of that action - a very important part, of course, but one which has to be consistent with the rest and set within a time frame broader than a single year, precisely because of its great importance.
I wish to thank the Presidents of the Council and the Commission for the facilities that they have provided to make possible a debate which I am sure will be rich and useful to everyone.
Each institution has a specific part to play in that debate, and ours is to voice the priorities, objectives and concerns of our fellow citizens, whom we represent.
In a world in constant change, in a Union that never ceases to evolve, our fellow citizens are feeling, for the first time in a many years, insecure.
I recall the original French text: "L'Europe ne se fera pas d'un coup ni dans une construction d'ensemble; elle se fera par des réalisations concrètes créant d'abord une solidarité de fait' .
This method made it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to create, in the latter half of the Twentieth Century, an impressive number of ties of solidarity between the peoples of the Union, a fabric which has given its citizens security.
Over the last few years, negative events such as the rise of unemployment and the calling into question of social security systems, and positive events such as the fall of the Berlin Wall and the development of new technologies, have instilled a feeling of insecurity amongst the people of Europe, to the extent that important steps forward such as those relating to economic and monetary union are viewed with suspicion, which is no less real for being unjustified.
I should now like briefly to address these three aspects of security.
I shall not address at present the question of employment, on which we had a substantial debate yesterday, but I should at least like to underline the fact that there is a direct relationship between the creation of wealth and investment, and stress how the latter has been increasing as important unknown factors such as the fate of the single currency have been removed.
In this sense, launching the euro, along with job creation, is our top priority, because of the contribution that it will make to both boosting the Union's economy and promoting its political development.
With the euro in their pocket, the people of our countries will feel a little more European, will appreciate Europe a little more.
The treaties provide for consultation of the European Parliament before each of these decisions are taken.
The people of Europe will be able to find out via their representatives what criteria have been used to select the countries that join the single currency in 1999.
The use of a transparent procedure based on objective criteria will undoubtedly help to increase the people's confidence in the future common currency.
The introduction of economic and monetary union will confer enormous power on the Community's institutions.
The greater the transparency and control, the greater the people's confidence will be in the thrust and decision-making of the common economic policy.
The Maastricht Treaty provides for a number of possibilities in this regard, which can be developed in practice, in some cases, and by means of the interinstitutional agreement, in others.
In the coming months, it will also be necessary to perfect a system of parliamentary control of the most important economic decisions provided for in the Maastricht Treaty and the Pact on Stability and Growth.
The adaptation of our economies to the requirements of the single currency is a good example of that.
It is therefore unavoidable to pick up the work interrupted during the final stage of the recent Intergovernmental Conference and begin preparing without delay the arrangements for carrying out the impending institutional reform.
The uncertainties to which I referred in the first part of my speech, and which weighed so heavily on the final stage of the Amsterdam Summit, still exist.
It is no more nor less than the Community method, which reserves the right of initiative for the European Commission and makes the adoption of proposals by the Member States subject to prior consultation of the European Parliament.
Applying this method will enable us to discuss coherent texts based on the common interest, something which does not always happen in the case of traditional intergovernmental negotiation.
I sincerely believe that a good service that Parliament could render to the people of Europe would be to promote the future institutional reform of the Union, in such a way that the forthcoming European elections could serve as a sort of referendum on this project.
I am therefore confident that we can complete the first part of the journey before our current term of office ends, and I cordially invite the European Commission, here and now, to begin this work.
We have to opt for one of the two systems that have worked successfully for other large groups: the presidential or the parliamentary.
The Commission is a political body, and it will always be so.
Ladies and gentlemen, achieving the enormous task that must be accomplished over the next few years will only be possible if we prove capable of restoring the values that inspired those true revolutionaries who founded the European Community on the basis of two golden rules: the replacement of confrontation with agreement and compromise; and the promotion of dialogue as a means of achieving greater freedom and equality.
On 20 June 1950, Robert Schuman opened the first Intergovernmental Conference in the Salon de l'Horloge at the French Foreign Office.
Without wasting time, on the following day, Jean Monnet described the change of mentality needed to make the Union, today's Union, possible.
In order to meet the challenges facing us, in order to give the people of Europe security, we must think in terms of a joint enterprise.
Not in terms of negotiating our own prosperity, but in terms of achieving that prosperity through the prosperity of all.
This third debate on the state of the Union is taking place 23 days after the signature of the Amsterdam treaty, 30 days before the European Summit on employment, exactly 51 days before the European Council of December devoted to enlargement, and seven months before the final decision on economic and monetary union.
These meetings have given us, and the meetings that lie ahead will give us, precise information on the future of the Community concept and action, and hence, on the way ahead for our common projects.
This project should remain firmly based on a sense of purpose and on a methodical approach, and on the binding solidarity of all members.
The decisions recently made, or which will be made in the meetings that I have just mentioned, will in the light of the actual stances adopted, demonstrate how far this ambition is still shared by all, and whether our project remains a pertinent one.
Mr President, I shall not repeat here what I think about the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Last but not least, Amsterdam has made substantial progress in the institutional field.
Your Parliament will acknowledge this in all objectivity, although the treaty is still too timid and insufficiently conclusive in that respect.
Let us acknowledge that this new treaty, despite its shortfalls, in spite of its weaknesses, is a major step forward in the long road towards achieving Union.
As for economic and monetary union, it has continued, almost imperturbably, to move on methodically, according to the scenario approved and articulated around a whole plethora of new legislative provisions.
The progress towards convergence, in our countries, has been and remains impressive.
Monetary union will see the light of day, as expected, on 1 January 1999.
The monetary revolution will take place, not withstanding all those, both inside and outside, who sought to discredit the single currency.
The recent decision of the Ministers of Finance to fix parities, on the very day the list of participatory countries is set, is a step in this direction.
The good economic and budgetary results of the Member States give me reason to believe that a great number of Member States will be ready to join the euro from 1 January 1999.
The time for decision is nearly upon us, but we must remain vigilant.
It may be possible to win elections by opposing the euro.
But in so doing we would certainly compromise the future, by killing off the last great European ambition of this century. (Applause) Mr President, on 21 November, the Heads of State and of Government will meet to talk and to decide, as I hope, on employment.
I hope that 21 November will become a great European meeting.
My wish is that on the morning after 21 November, the European project will have become comprehensive, and that in becoming concrete, it will have made both mankind and the dignity of mankind central to our concerns.
If we are successful with employment, and equally so several months later with monetary union, confidence will have once again become a European virtue.
What Europe today most lacks, is confidence in its own destiny.
This will be its enlargement to the countries of central, eastern and southern Europe.
Membership of the European Union will not solve all the problems which the candidate countries have to confront.
No, that is not so, and major efforts of adjustment are still required in all candidate countries.
But I hasten to add that we too must prepare for the entry of new Member States.
Agenda 2000, presented by the Commission, is a work of analysis and of conception of a rare quality, and it demonstrates that enlargement requires not only the future, but the present members of the Union, to make a considerable effort.
At the European Council of December, we need to be driven by a concern for all the candidate countries.
Our message must be clear: all candidate countries have a vocation for membership of the European Union.
These will be bilateral negotiations between the European Union and the countries concerned.
To consider them as forming part of a group would be to revert to Soviet logic.
I wish to speak about this new, and old, question of the national contributions to the community budget.
But until that occurs, I would like to say three things.
The first is that we should give no credit to the idea that the benefits of the European Union can be measured on the sole basis of budget inflows and outflows. (Applause) The union budget amounts to 1.2 % of gross national product of the European Union.
We lost four precious years at the beginning of the 1980s because of the budget battle which brought us into a conflict and ended up by paralysing our policy in all respects.
We must also reinforce our presence and our commitment in the Middle East.
We want to be players, not just payers . (Applause) We must pursue a direct and multi-faceted dialogue with the Asian countries, and must turn our eyes to Africa, that unhappy, but so frequently courageous continent, to that Africa where on closer inspection we see, alongside regrettable and untoward events, arising here and there, new, young, democratic, capable and generous leaders, who deserve our trust.
When my father was born in 1924, he too was in the post war generation.
Our parents represent a generation who were a post-war generation twice over.
Let us, we who have grown up in peace, act in such a way that in the next century war will not be, as it so frequently has been in our past, a European option.
Europe is entering this phase of its future development with major strengths, and is doing so also as a result of return to growth.
Mr President, the Amsterdam Treaty has been signed.
I am somewhat surprised to hear some Europeans, convinced Europeans, proposing rejection of this treaty because it has not solved everything.
It appears to me that a wiser course would be to take stock of the many real areas of progress in this treaty, and to set aside a meeting to work out in a real way what we have to do prior to enlargement.
Above all, we should do this by concentrating on the essential, qualified majority voting, for example, and not on those things which, from a European point of view, are relatively accessory, such as a new weighting of votes in the Council.
However, I think I can claim to have always said the same thing, and when I came to Brussels in 1995, preparations were in the doldrums.
That is the reason why I, with YvesThibault de Silguy, took the initiative of a Green Paper on the practical modalities for the introduction of the euro.
Great policies are sometimes accomplished more through practical modalities than through visionary declarations.
Today, the technical preparations are now complete, as a result of a tremendous effort, and the Member States have, on this matter at least, given ample proof of tenacity, rigorous and steadfastness in their decisions.
I well remember the pitying looks when I predicted the introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999, and the participation in that introduction of a significant number of Member States.
One of the reasons which prompted me to propose a pact of confidence and trust for employment, more than a year ago, was precisely to show that combatting unemployment requires a coherent strategy.
Without growth, there is no job creation, but growth alone is not enough to solve the problem of unemployment.
I believe, as I said yesterday in the debate on employment, that 1997 can and should mark a new departure, thanks to the early introduction of the employment chapter of the Amsterdam Treaty, and on the basis of the special Luxembourg summit.
Nevertheless, although the economic conditions and the general environment are more favourable than ever, nothing can be taken for granted.
We have all too frequently in the past seen that economic revival can be a pretext not to undertake the necessary structural reforms.
Firstly because the Heads of State and of Government have so decided, and secondly and above all because this is the right approach, based on the approach which has been successfully followed in the field of economic policy.
Some have shown themselves to be critical about our estimate of the effect of the measures proposed, which we see as reinforced by economic recovery, namely the creation of twelve million jobs in five years.
Let us therefore concentrate on what is really said in our proposals.
The orientations of Agenda 2000 lay down the path to be followed.
All have accepted Agenda 2000 as the framework for negotiations, and all of them recognize the importance of a coherent and integrated approach.
I would also like to raise another problem which concerns me.
For this reason, the treaty provides for the Commission's opinion on individual applications, and the European Council at Copenhagen has defined criteria which should guide the Commission in this.
This exhaustive work has been undertaken by the Commission which, as I said, has shouldered its responsibilities in the light of the results of this work.
With regard to the policies of the European Union, I will just make a few rapid comments.
The economic and social cohesion policy is and will remain one of the pillars of the European Union.
How could it be otherwise, when we are preparing to welcome in new members, all of whom will require structural assistance, and all the while, furthermore, in spite of its successes, there still exist in the Union, in its present constitution, regions which are relatively undeveloped.
But it must be clear that structural assistance cannot become permanent assistance, for that would be contrary to its objective.
Mr President, there is one sphere where the Member States seem reluctant to build Europe.
The European Union is the largest donor organization in the world, and its weight as a trading partner makes it one of the two or three players that really count in Geneva.
And above all, this difficulty that we have of conceiving a foreign policy as a consistent whole, which takes into account all dimensions of Union action.
Mr President, I have deliberately restricted my speech to a few major themes.
You have before you our detailed proposals for the programme of work for 1998, which will be debated in December.
The period opening up before us is rich in possibilities.
Mr President, what is the state of the Union?
One thing they know is that on the back of the global market and the information society, jobs have been lost.
Let us start talking with a bit more common sense.
Most of us know that just throwing money at the problem is not, in itself, sufficient or even sensible.
But certainly my group is determined, because employment is our number one priority.
If the job summit can begin that process and provide a package of support measures as well, then we may be in the business of giving real prospects and opportunities to those who need our help.
In this context, this Parliament has done the European consumer a great service by insisting that the European Commission reorganize its services, policies and resources to give a high priority to consumers and public health.
We recognize as well that the Council in Amsterdam acknowledged the need for a revamped consumer and health policy in the new treaty and we hope that it will meet its obligations in full by supporting Parliament and the Commission to restore consumer confidence in the fact that their food and other products are not just safe but wholesome and of a high standard.
However, you might see the European Commission as your friendly gamekeeper, given it had just announced infringement proceedings against a great majority of the 15 EU Member States for failing to transpose the habitats directive into national law.
But our position, which I hope is a progressive one, can be influential, not just in keeping pressure on countries in the developing world to pay attention to the environment in their economic programmes but, crucially, to force the United States to understand its responsibility and its role as the world's leading nation to take action with us.
For them the EU and its Member States still offer opportunities to be exploited.
The state of the Union also looks quite different to the citizens of eastern and central Europe.
For Europe's current 370 million citizens, enlargement of the EU to a further 11 countries in the foreseeable future is a huge leap into the unknown with fears of dwindling support for them through the EU budget, agricultural and structural funds and cohesion support.
Recent years, however, have been grim.
We must enable the countries of Cyprus, Central and Eastern Europe to join us in our common endeavours.
You rightly drew attention, Mr President, to the historic declaration that Robert Schuman made on 9 May 1950, at the time the integration idea was put forward.
On 15 September the Council decided to fix the parity between the currencies that are to belong to the euro in May 1990, at the same time as the decision on the first countries to be part of monetary union.
I believe that the Amsterdam summit took a balanced decision in that it linked the stability pact to a growth and employment pact.
I hope, Mr President, that the Luxembourg summit on 21 November will also give the European Union a social and human face.
But in talking about the European Union's major objectives I will wind up this list by mentioning two areas in which I feel there is a painful lack of ambition.
The United States, with its strong resolve, likes to see itself as the world's arbitrator.
Even if the main objective is a united Europe including central and eastern Europe we must not forget our solidarity with the ACP countries and more specifically Africa.
We as a group support the Commission's aim of completing the internal market and also working towards fiscal harmonization in the Union.
Our initial evaluation of the Treaty of Amsterdam was positive.
In a number of areas real progress was made and Mrs Green has rightly pointed out what is possible in the fields of public health, environment and even the third pillar, internal security.
But the real institutional reform which is needed before enlargement is still completely lacking.
Finally I want to mention two areas in which we have a particular interest in cooperation between the institutions.
In fact it made major gains, its powers were considerably extended.
Four years later, in September 1944, we in our small town in the north of Belgium were liberated by Polish soldiers.
I hope that this debate between the three political institutions of the Union will help achieve that.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 1997 was certainly a turning point for the European Union.
In a month's time, the European Council will be faced with an even more urgent problem that affects our citizens at close quarters, that of unemployment with a good 20 million out of work.
Perhaps, Mr President, that is the paradox of this Europe: establishing highly ambitious objectives without having an adequate political and institutional structure to take into account the wishes of its citizens through the Parliamentary representation it already has.
We have asked for an in-depth parliamentary debate on this matter and I think that this House should make it one of the political priorities of the next few months.
The reforms contemplated by Agenda 2000 will be a reason for a full and exhaustive debate in our Institution, but from now one we can say that we will give our entire support to completing the single market, to reviewing the problem of indirect taxation, to better finalizing the efforts made to make our economy more competitive, to continuing hastily with regard to trans-European infrastructural networks, to reassessing the scientific and technological potential and to a qualifying review of the structural funds.
Everything will have to take place in a framework of economic and social cohesion for the sole, direct benefit of the citizens of the Union.
This presupposes a new medium term financial framework commencing as from 2000 that can guarantee adequate resources for the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves.
There are two requirements which are fundamental to us which I fail to see mentioned in the document drawn up by the Commission: a serious fight against fraud and greater control and an effective rationality of the Union's expenses.
Although, on the one hand, the absence of a political union prevents us from having a strong and unique representation at international level, having recently opted for a faceless structure, on the other, we are applying a foreign policy, albeit limited, consisting of aid, contacts, roving delegations, bilateral agreements, representative offices of the Commission and anything else.
However, we consider greater involvement of the European Parliament in foreign policy to be essential to and certainly functional in the Union's ambitions.
Presidents, I believe that, at the dawn of the third Millennium, the European Union is preparing for an unprecedented challenge, that of achieving the design of the founder fathers of Community Europe, a political design in which the European ideal takes the form of a union of objectives in a strong and solidary common motherland.
Mr President, may I begin by welcoming the President-in-Office of the Council on behalf of my group.
I would like to say on behalf of my group that we all have confidence in the Luxembourg presidency and the qualities of this President-in-Office.
Early next year the European Council is to decide which countries are to participate in the European currency.
The euro is essential for all Europeans who, in the words of Thomas Mann, prefer a European Germany to a German Europe.
That means that the euro is at present the only project for strengthening the Union.
This is all the more true in that the Member States themselves will still have to take a number of unpopular measures.
These reforms will be needed even without the euro.
This Parliament must use its own powers more effectively.
It is important that we make democratic control in the Commission as strong as possible.
The reforms the Bureau decided on in July must therefore be implemented without delay, before the end of the year.
No parliament in Europe has as many meetings as the European Parliament.
Mr President, we were concerned about this debate, because the debate on the state of the Union, which we are now holding for the third time, must not be either a matter of rhetorical or superficial routine.
Casting our gaze back - as some poet such as Antonio Machado once said - we see the jobs that have disappeared as well as those that have been created.
On behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left, therefore, I wish to say that we support unequivocally the integration of the European Union's employment policies.
And it has to be said that the debate in those two countries has gone far beyond the debate in this Parliament or the other European institutions.
We especially support the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Juncker, in his drive to defend and take action in favour of real convergence - what he called the convergence of employment.
And we also support the idea of allocating ECU 150 million from the budget to employment programmes.
If we do a simple division exercise, however, we see that this works out at only ECU 8 for each unemployed person in Europe.
In my country, the leader of my political group repeats continuously that "programmes, programmes, programmes' are essential.
And I should like to commend this employment proposal to the European Parliament with the words: "employment, employment, employment' .
Faced with these challenges - and I am coming to an end, Mr President - the Amsterdam Treaty is inadequate to the task of carrying out the essential reform of the institutions prior to enlargement.
Mr President-in-Office, Mr Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an interesting Belgian radio programme called 'Situation hopeless but not serious' .
Even Commissioner Van Miert stated publicly in September that Amsterdam was simply 'marking time' .
As a result of the strict monetary policy, the euro is already associated by millions of Europeans with social breakdown and job losses even before it has come into being.
How well-meaning we are towards Africa can be seen in particular this week in the chocolate directive.
At any event, without a convincing democratic political plan both internally and externally Europe remains nothing but a bureaucracy.
Mr President, in this autumn of 1997, the state of the Union appears to be one of contrast.
In itself, the euro is also a very good thing for the reinforcement of political union, which remains our objective.
Indeed, the state of the Union also has its areas of darkness.
I hope that in a few months, when the euro is on track, the Council and the Commission will really take enlargement on board at last.
This budgetary dogma is not consistent with the new tasks of the Union, whether they involve enlargement, of course, but also the struggle for employment and keeping up the policies of solidarity.
Mr President, the first two priorities of the Council and the Commission for the year to come, namely employment and the euro, appear to be fairly broadly contradictory.
More generally, all the while there is no optimal monetary area at the Union level, the euro will impose a monetary rigidity which is contrary to the idea of flexibility, which some claim to seek in other quarters, and which will be costly in employment terms.
Furthermore, as was said in the debate yesterday, the procedure of coordination of employment, with its guidelines and, very likely soon, its sanctions, intends to be an exact copy of the procedure used for economic and monetary union.
Mr President, 1997 should have been the year of reforms and the signal for the start of a new stage of unification, characterized by the restoration of the institutional structure, by the increase in the skills of Parliament, by the specific definition of the commencement of the political union.
These were our hopes when the Intergovernmental Conference began its work - to take steps forward towards democracy within the Union and to establish the bases for the definition of appropriate rules for creating the political union and for meeting the conditions required for expansion.
The late effort by the French, which was also joined by my compatriots at the last minute, to call a European Council on 21 November dedicated to employment, was not enough to dissipate the fears for our immediate and long term future.
The future of economic and monetary union on its own or the future of the whole Union, which also comprises countries that have not been able to obtain immediate access to the euro?
The greatest damage, he concluded, would be the increase in unemployment.
A similar point should be made for expansion: in the absence of a more than substantial financial effort, there will be a constant reduction in the resources currently intended for regions of the Union that benefit from the policy of cohesion - objectives 1 and 5 - and a probable increase in the imbalances between rich regions and poor regions.
I would now like to raise several questions: what would our future be if the United Kingdom really took a step sideways and London, one of the leading financial markets, remained outside the euro?
Europe must be political or it will not exist!
And so, Mr President-in-Office, it is true that we have obligations, as you said yesterday, including obligations to the countries of the former eastern republics, but above all we have obligations to the 20 million European unemployed: obligations to control the relocation of companies, obligations to reconcile the freedom of the market with solidarity and, finally, to build political union.
Fortunately, towards the end, some voices were raised to speak about things which are finally so much in opposition to my own thoughts and words, that I am pleased to seize this opportunity to reaffirm what I believe.
There should be no opposition between enlargement and the priorities attaching to it on the one hand, and the priority to be given to employment on the other.
I think these are two priorities which are not antinomic or contradictory one to another.
A question was directed towards me - it almost caused me some amusement - relating to a Luxembourg initiative in the field of tax harmonization because, it appeared, Luxembourg would be especially well-placed to launch such initiatives.
Yes, we are well-placed to speak about and discuss tax harmonization in Europe, having devoted a meeting of the informal Council of Ministers of Finance to this topic, and after organizing the debate at the Ecofin Council of 13 or 14 October last.
I must say that we are fifteen of us specialists around the table, because from the mouths of my fourteen colleagues I heard many arguments which they had always previously been fearful of using.
At the time when the Luxembourg presidency has just proposed a more wide-ranging approach, so that the debate is not focussed on the taxation of savings only, but drives on strongly towards tax harmonization so as to avoid unfair competition in the matter of tax advantages, and therefore includes all aspects of taxation, I note that, contrary to what some people fondly believed only yesterday, there is not one tax haven in Europe, but there are fifteen of them.
There are fifteen of us specialists around the table, all able to discuss taxation questions, and I hope and feel that this ecumenism at the Council level cannot but have profound repercussions in this Chamber, and that it will lead to even more broad debate and so towards successful tax harmonization in Europe.
At all events, the Luxembourg presidency will continue to deploy every effort between now and the end of December to reach agreement on this point.
Thank you, therefore, for the two or three interventions which, although a little discordant, were not excessively so, and gave me the opportunity to speak to you again.
I would nevertheless like to insist on a number of aspects relating to this programme of work.
Indeed, over and above the content of Agenda 2000, we presented programmes whose aim is to deepen and to adapt the Union's policy, that is, to ensure that the market operates more harmoniously.
This is a problem which is particularly close to my heart, because under pressure of directives - exactly 187 of them - we have created an internal market.
I think that one of our tasks is precisely to perfect the internal market, so that it can operate as an integrated market.
For this reason we have presented an action plan for the completion of the internal market, which has been submitted to the Council.
We believe that it can be completed between now and 1 January 1999, at the time of the introduction of the euro zone of monetary union.
I do not despair - and how many times have I said this! - of also finding a solution which I would like to describe as definitive, to the financing of the transeuropean networks at the meeting of the European Council in Luxembourg on 21 November.
I know the importance attached to this by the Presidency, and that it can find the means to do this on the basis of the 1993 White Paper.
Since the Essen European Council, how many times have we repeated our attachment to these great transeuropean networks!
I believe that effectively - and as always out of a concern for interconnections within the internal market - these networks should not be considered as simply part of the framework of employment, but also and above all as part of the framework of infrastructure development, so that they can provide our internal market with interconnection with major works, both in the transportation field and in the fields of telecommunications and energy.
However, the regulatory framework required for the harmonious development of these sectors must be completed.
As regards the remainder, ladies and gentlemen, I remember that in my investiture address, I raised three aspects where I said I believed that our citizens - and some of you have indeed laid emphasis on the confidence we must have in our citizens - looked forward to more Europe.
First, in the field of employment, notwithstanding the fact that social policy continues to be the responsibility of the Member States.
Our citizens do not understand how a European Union of fifteen Member States making up a single market of 270 million people can stay indifferent to their leading concern, which is employment.
I believe that here, our citizens want more Europe, and I hope that the European Council in Luxembourg on 21 November will give the signal to start a process whose medium term aim is to contain unemployment.
Secondly, our citizens do not understand how or why Europe is unable to solve problems which are on our very doorstep, in former Yugoslavia, or in the Middle East, nor how the European Union cannot or will not play a leading part in the international concert of nations.
Here too, in the field of external policy and security, our citizens are asking for more Europe, and want Europe to draw the political consequences of its economic dimension, so that it can play a leading role on a basis of equality with other states.
Thirdly, our citizens want more security.
I believe that the programme of work that we have submitted to you, and which is the object of consultations and debate today on the state of the Union, provides a response to just these demands, and will give more strength to Europe, and hence mean more confidence in Europe itself.
This programme of work can and must be a real contract of government, between the Commission and the Parliament, provided it is set out and performed on a rigorous basis.
Therefore it is surprising in the 1998 programmes not to find the slightest concrete proposal in this field, whereas we find many other proposals in the list of the 31 new legislative proposals.
For example, the Commission announces for 1998 a proposed decision on a cultural programme from 2000 to 2006, and a proposed directive on the direct taxation of savings, which is an astonishing announcement - if I may say so as an aside - at a time when Commissioner Monti is trying to negotiate a voluntary code of conduct with Member States in the field of taxation.
As regards enlargement, it is known that the Parliament will ask the Commission around the middle of 1998 to present it a report containing proposals for a reform of the treaty with a view to enlargement.
On an even more technical basis, the new initiatives for legislation are presented in a list of 31 proposals, in the form of a list without any indication of the legal basis or the timetable for their presentation.
The programme of work does not give any advance information, either, on the institutional consequences of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and in particular on the extension of the field of codecision.
Finally, as I already said in previous years, the Santer Commission has in the last few years made a frenetic use of strategic documents.
I would nevertheless like to emphasize that the Commission has done excellent work in the field of legislation relating to the euro, that it has been intensely active in overcoming the BSE crisis, incidentally under pressure from the Parliament.
Ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, expansion and its concomitant institutional and financial reforms, all these will allow us an opportunity to finish this work in broad areas.
The main points mentioned by the Commission concerning the euro, employment, expansion, the role in the World, and citizens' rights, are, I think the correct ones.
Our unbelievable success - which two years ago no one would have imagined possible - concerning stability in preparation for the euro is, I think, proof that this method is the right one.
And where the Amsterdam Treaty offers opportunities for it, we should establish a sensible method.
The Commission must prepare itself for a future where we have a new troika, in which the Commissioner for foreign policy plays an important role.
Thus, the Commission should be thinking now abut a reorganization, in order for it to be fit for the new opportunities, for it to build an operation on this base.
The treaty has potential, but this potential has to be utilised by preparing oneself for it accordingly.
Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we need a cost-benefit analysis of the European Union.
As a result of the expansion this European Union could become a community of peace for the whole of Europe.
European peace policy in its best sense means overcoming barriers.
Mr President, the Commission's work programme amounts to a bit more Brussels and a bit less democracy.
I want Mr Santer to take the slogan "fewer means better' seriously, so there are fewer rules for central and eastern Europe to accept.
But to my surprise Amsterdam is conspicuous by its absence in the Commission's plans, just when I would expect the Commission to have announced specific new initiatives in its plans, either to achieve the further institutional reforms that are needed before enlargement or by exploiting the possibilities that the treaty will in fact offer practically and creatively.
Apart from the fact that the Monti proposals go further and are stronger than the provisions on the free movement of persons in the Treaty of Amsterdam, it is surely unacceptable that nothing is happening in this area.
In 1993 our Parliament urged the Commission to act on this point.
Moving on now to a more general problem facing the Union, namely the decline in public confidence in the Union, I see the Monti proposals as a good test case.
Mr President, the essential purpose of this debate this morning is to take stock of where we are today in the European Union and to map out a way forward for the future; a way forward which is practical but also inspirational.
We have Agenda 2000, which provides a framework for enlargement and a new financial perspective.
At the same time, all the indications are that we are on course for the creation of a single currency on 1 January 1999.
I believe it is essential that the enlargement negotiations begin as soon as is practicable.
I am encouraged by many of the comments and proposals that the Commission is making in this respect.
Frankly, the situation where we have between 18 and 20 million people unemployed in the European Union is unacceptable.
We should be careful that we do not simply engage in the rhetoric of full employment, but at the same time we come forward with the proposals which will actually attain that goal.
I hope that the special employment summit will be an ideal opportunity for national governments to pool their experiences and to come forward with a set of practical propositions which we can all implement in our different ways throughout the 15 Member States.
We have to continue to put the emphasis on education and training right through our entire educational systems.
Mr President, with your permission, I will make a very brief reply to some of the comments that were made relating to the Commission's programme of work for 1998, which has been presented to you.
First, I would like to seize this opportunity to identify clearly, as some have said, the strategy of the Commission regarding its work.
A moment ago I spoke about the Green Paper which we issued at the end of May 1995 on the euro, on the steps to be taken towards economic and monetary union.
Today, it can be seen that nearly 80 % to 90 % of the Commission's initial proposals have been achieved and transposed to European Council level.
If all the technical preparations have now been completed, that is thanks to the initial launch of this Green Paper.
It was essential in this field - which involves not only producers, but consumers as a result of the difficulties that we have all faced in the wake of the BSE crisis - that a Green Paper be issued with a view to consultation.
In order to ensure more transparency, and to throw greater light on a number of opinions, we issued that Green Paper.
We took that initiative, not in order to evade our responsibilities, but to give you, and through you to give the citizens, the possibility of going into this subject in greater depth, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity.
I do not know what your reaction is, of course, on reading the protocol relating to subsidiarity, but ours is that we need to enter into far more consultations than in the past before we undertake a legislative initiative.
This obligation is not of a kind to facilitate procedures, but it was considered as being one which would raise more confidence among our citizens.
Of course, this will not be a new Coreper, and we will take great care indeed that the Commission, as was said in the Treaty, should be fully involved in the drafting and implementation of common foreign and security policy, according to the formula of the new troïka, as provided for by the Treaty.
I wished only reply to those members who raised a number of questions in order to ensure that the debate took on its full substance.
On the other hand, in a declaration contained in an annex to the Treaty of Amsterdam, we undertook to reorganize our services, particularly those involving external relations.
We have already worked over a long period on this reorganization, and the decision was taken, on a collegiate basis, to set up a common service for all external relations, which should be operational no later than 1 July 1998.
In other words, all of our external services will be reassembled into a common service with a view to reorganising our external relations under a single vice-president, as I proposed at the Intergovernmental Conference.
On the other hand, of course, I agree with the lively criticism from Elmar Brok, but I have already replied to some of his questions.
As regards foreign trade, one of the faults, it appears to me, of the Treaty of Amsterdam, was the insufficiency of the reform of article 113.
In the field of foreign trade, when the Union speaks with a single voice it is successful, both in the Uruguay-Round and in other fields relating to the World Trade Organization.
I have said and repeated, this very morning in my address, that effectively this treaty has made a number of real advances possible, while realising full well that, on the institutional level, we did not progress as much as we would have wished.
In the final analysis, we should take into consideration the real advances of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the President-inOffice is certainly right to say that the Treaty of Amsterdam is a good treaty.
That does not mean that the treaty fulfils all the ambitions that the President of the Commission in the first instance, and you yourselves, had placed in the Intergovernmental Conference, but I have often remarked in my political life that Europe always reacts in response to external political pressure.
That is why I am convinced, as regards institutional reform, that Europe will react, and it will proceed to institutional reform prior to enlargement.
This is the reason why the Commission has proposed calling a new intergovernmental conference after the year 2000, but at all events, prior to enlargement, in order to implement all the institutional reforms necessary to ensure that our union remains a strong and effective European Union!
Thank you, Mr President of the Commission.
I have written to you today to point out that four Members of this House have been invited to accept, by 3 p.m, the code of conduct imposed by the Labour Party in London preventing them from speaking to the press and that, in my view, this constitutes an infringement of the Rules of this House.
I submit that it is a matter for this House, that freedom of speech should be absolute and it is the duty of the Bureau to maintain it.
That is what I said this morning.
Votes I shall speak on Amendment No 1.
Very well, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, but allow me to state that Amendment No 1 is out of order, and I am giving you the floor because I assume that you do not agree.
Mr President, I do indeed dispute your point of view, founded I imagine on Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, and more precisely paragraph 1a).
You intend to apply the Rule under which the amendment is out of order because it applies to 1997 instead of 1998.
I would also like to remind you, referring to page 24 of the Minutes of our meeting of Monday, as approved Tuesday morning, that you yourself proposed not adding a part-session to the 1997 calendar, but adding one to the 1998 calendar.
The deadline for tabling amendments to this proposal was noon on Tuesday.
There was therefore a possibility of amending your proposal.
This proposal was a double one, and Mr President, I have done no more than take up the terms of your letter of 8 October sent to all group presidents.
You said there that after checking all the information, there should be an item on the agenda for the October part-session in Strasbourg on setting dates for a twelfth session in Strasbourg, from 3 to 7 November.
I have done no more than defer to the opinion of the legal department, and you know very well that if the Parliament does not introduce this twelfth session, it will also be acting against the decision of the Court of Justice.
I know, Mr President, that you have come under considerable pressure not to put this amendment to the vote, but you are President of the Parliament.
Respect for our institution depends on respect for a decision of the Court of Justice.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, I consider your amendment out of order for two reasons.
Just yesterday, after my first reaction, which was to declare your amendment in order, I was able to check with the Commission that it would cause insurmountable problems for its members too.
Mr President, on a point of order.
You have assured me that you are committed not only to respect the Court decision on our sessions here in Strasbourg but that you are equally committed to applying the whole of the Edinburgh package to the meetings of Parliament.
Therefore, for the time being, there is no decision relating to 1997.
The Member States which took the initiative to institute that action are perfectly free to continue it or, as I hope, to suspend it, in the light of the impossibility of holding the session.
It concerns the regulation of the World Trade Organization, which is establishing itself as a new World Government in many areas that are particularly important to us.
Mr President, I only wish to say that I cannot share Mr Wolf's opinion.
There is no text on which you can give an explanation of vote.
Mr President, could you then please inform me on what legal basis you decline to allow me to make an explanation of vote?
Mrs Müller, we have never accepted explanations of vote on Parliament's calendar because we have never had a final vote on that under the terms of Rule 122, which reads "Once the general debate has been concluded any Member may give an oral explanation on the final vote' etcetera.
But as Rule 122 stands, according to my interpretation, it does not permit an explanation of vote because there was no final vote.
The European Union must have its place in the reconstruction of this part of Europe.
The European Union will have such a place if we give our approval as proposed by our rapporteur.
To give spare parts producers the opportunity to make products which are included in or form a part of a complete product contributes, through increased competition, to lower prices in the market.
Legal protection of designs and models raises not only delicate legal problems, but also major economic and political problems.
Our interlocutors in the Council and in the Commission agreed in saying that this was the essential part of the draft directive.
The Parliament should ensure that the Commission and the Council face up to their responsibilities.
It is understandable that their priority is to protect their own position and that they see the production of spare parts as important to this.
Vehicle manufacturers have a right to benefit from their investment in design.
By voting for the repair clause today, we can urge the Council to allow industry to get on with this task and protect the interests of those who work in or use the spare parts sector.
Our group, of course, has unreservedly voted in favour of this modification of the Council regulation.
It is important that the Parliament adopt this amendment to the regulation with great speed, as our food processing industry needs it in order to adapt in line with the changing market.
Mrs Castellina emphasizes the regularity with which the European negotiators decline to use the principle of symmetrical concessions, without in most cases energetically putting forward the interests of its Member States, particularly if the United States of America are involved.
The report justly denounces the lack of foresight on the part of the Commission, which would have enabled the Commission and this Parliament to measure the impact of this agreement on the telecommunications sectors of the Member States of the Union.
Mrs Castellina is also concerned at the absence of foresight regarding the consequences of this agreement on this sector in the developing countries.
I can but approve the position adopted by the rapporteur.
The absence of data enabling an evaluation of the consequences of our international trade agreements is unfortunately a constant factor in the external trade policy of the European Union.
In its management of the WTO, and of free trade agreements in all directions, as well as of the customs unions to which it has allowed itself to be blindly committed, the European Union appears to be more guided by ideological presuppositions than by the will to serve the real interests of the Member States.
So the consumer will in fact notice very little effect from the international telecom agreement.3.The advantages for developing countries also have to be seen in relative terms.
With the improved international legal framework those countries are becoming more attractive for investment, which encourages economic growth and technical development.
It has a healthy economy with inflation estimated at around 6 %.
Slovenia submitted an application to join the European Union in June 1996.
The Commission recommended that negotiations commence for its accession.
I will conclude by expressing the favourable opinion of my group, the Alleanza Nazionale, to the approval of this motion, therefore agreeing with the rapporteur.
My additional proposals have not in all respects been taken into consideration by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
This contrast makes it difficult to reach a consensus on future policy on government functions in the European Union.
The rapporteur's wish to set up independent European control bodies at various levels is in my view completely unrealistic.
The real problem lies in the lack of transparency in the present legislation.
I welcome the production of this report.
We are therefore opposed to the supranationalism which advocated in paragraph 3, the independent European judicial authority which is advocated in paragraph 11 and the separate category of crime which is discussed in paragraph 17.
It is because of this, the rapporteur's demands for supranationalism in the judicial system, that we are abstaining in the final vote.
On the other hand, Denmark's reservations about participating in legal cooperation in the EU prevent it from being involved in the initiatives to combat fraud which the report demands, which is why we have not voted in favour of all parts of the report.
Like the rapporteur I am pleased with the Commission's annual report and work programme on combatting fraud.
Justice and investigation (including criminal law) are the responsibility of the Member States.
It has to be admitted that Member States have neglected their customs departments since the internal market came into force.
Also there is still insufficient cooperation between customs departments.
and resumed at 3 p.m.) Protection of displaced persons The next item is the report (A4-0284/97) by Mr Wiebenga, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, on the proposal to the Council for a Joint Action based on Article K.3(2)(b) of the Treaty on European Union concerning temporary protection of displaced persons (COM(97)0093 - C4-0247/97-97/0081(CNS)).
The figure mentioned for former Yugoslavia is two million displaced persons, half a million of them flooding into the European Union.
Such a large number of people cannot be dealt with through the usual asylum procedures and yet they need to be allowed in.
It indicates that asylum procedures can be suspended after not more than five years and governments will then consider what is to be done.
It is inhuman to make people wait more than five years in uncertainty.
After five years people have to go back to their country of origin when the situation there is believed to be safe and reasonable, or they must be granted permanent leave to remain in the country to which they have been admitted, in other words in the European Union, with the possibility of naturalization.
There are - and I say this quite openly and clearly - two amendments by Mrs Palacio and a number of other colleagues, Amendments Nos 39 and 40, which call for unanimity on this point and that means that there will again be a right of veto.
I therefore appeal to Parliament to firmly reject Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi's amendments calling for unanimity in particular and I am obviously appealing on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
Mr President, may I conclude by complimenting Commissioner Gradin.
This is the first time that the European Commission has made use of its right of initiative in a Community action.
The EU common policy on refugees is stagnant, even though the policy on asylum-seekers is seen as one of the most important areas of cooperation.
The proposal for this common measure must be regarded, therefore, as a long-awaited initiative to end the standstill.
The parliamentary report will show that an asylum policy at EU level does not have to mean an extension of fortress Europe, but can also be a constructive development of existing standards.
In this way, this measure must be viewed as a framework for a unified procedure in the case of a massive influx of refugees into the European Union.
Mr Wiebenga pointed this out in his speech.
We are therefore very glad that the Commission has taken an initiative aimed at temporary protection for large numbers of people who are fleeing from particular geographic areas.
The proposal to the Council is to decide on common rules on protection based on Article K 3.
However, solidarity requires that measures are in the context of a set of rules which can be accepted by the citizens of the Union.
I will conclude by thanking Commissioner Gradin for this initiative and also for wanting to listen to Parliament.
We also consider the procedure undertaken by the Commission to be very serious, procedure that involves the European Parliament directly.
In fact, Europe has a great responsibility today on this matter: the responsibility of being a beacon, a reference point for all those in difficult situations, those subjected to particular and temporary dramatic living conditions.
And so the question of compensation is very important: compensation means that it is not just one member country assuming possible responsibility for the acceptance of these displaced persons, but that responsibility is common to the 15 countries of Europe.
Firstly, it establishes a true solidarity among countries in the Union, in that it requires a distribution of expenses and responsibilities.
It is not uninteresting in this respect to underscore or mention in passing that, on the occasion of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, Germany took in several hundreds of thousands of displaced persons and that, while no reproach is to be made to anyone, our British friends, for example, have hardly received a single one.
Secondly, this proposal also tries to harmonize the legislation and regulations governing the fate of displaced persons.
Finally, the European Parliament is now informed - or its opinion is requested - on the conduct to be adopted in the future.
Here I am thinking in particular about the purport of a number of amendments seeking limitations on the right to return to the country of origin, although this is an absolute and inalienable right.
With regard to exclusions, the text naturally provides for exclusion against war criminals and authors of crimes against humanity.
In reality, the report shows no concern about the fact that fraudulent asylum seeking is one of the leading fraudulent methods of immigration into the Member States.
Secondly, the report does not make it possible to assess the intentions of the persons in question.
Today, nobody can understand, Mr President, and here I conclude, how it is that in my own country the regime offered in the last few years to Algerian immigrants is more favourable than the regime granted the Harkis, who took their life into their hands when they fled Algeria, simply because they felt they were French.
I hope in particular that Mr Wiebenga's colleagues in the Netherlands Parliament will share his view.
The same really applies to the temporary protection referred to in Amendment No 21.
But apart from that Mr Wiebenga has done excellent work and deserves our full support and we would like to join him in complimenting Commissioner Gradin on this fine cooperation.
One of the main points concerns article 10 of the joint action.
In its present wording, article 10 is, in my view, legally incorrect.
It provides that the examination of an application for asylum under the Geneva Convention introduced by a beneficiary of a temporary protection regime may be postponed for as long as the Council has not adopted a decision on the phasing out of the temporary protection regime.
The examination of an application for asylum cannot be legally delayed.
The procedure must offer all applicants the possibility of presenting their application for asylum as soon as possible.
In fact, this article should establish the procedure for dealing with displaced persons who, besides receiving temporary humanitarian protection, seek asylum.
I would therefore ask the House to pay particular attention to Amendment No 37, tabled by our group, which provides that the fact that an applicant is the beneficiary of a temporary protection regime may be taken into account when examining an application for asylum, without this - I stress - determining the refusal of the application or a delay in the granting of the application which could jeopardize the ultimate aim of protection.
I have studied this report and can see no reason to put in any amendments to it.
I completely support his position on it.
The report on temporary protection represents the recognition of the desire at the level of the European Union for a coordinated joint action to deal with the situation where there is a sudden mass influx of displaced persons resulting from an armed conflict in their own countries.
This initiative derives from the experiences of conflict in the former Yugoslavia and, more recently, the situation in Albania.
The question is, can the European Union find a flexible way, through a joint action, of responding in a coordinated manner to any future situations that might arise where persons are temporarily in need of international protection?
The proposal is essentially a humanitarian response to the need to offer protection on a temporary basis to individuals fleeing a country in significant numbers as their lives are in imminent danger.
The temporary protection period is limited to the time during which the conditions in their country of origin do not allow a safe return of those caught up in the conflicts.
It is important to bear in mind that we cannot predict now where the next conflict might arise, the number of people in immediate danger, nor their particular circumstances.
No two situations involving displaced persons are the same.
Applications for asylum should be looked at without undue delay.
As the Commission points out, the proposed joint action does not seek to introduce a new right to seek temporary protection in addition to the existing right to seek asylum.
Some of the amendments tabled will not facilitate progress with this proposal which, I want to stress, should prepare the way for a humanitarian response to future situations which might arise where a mass influx of people in need of international protection takes place.
Finally, I want to congratulate the Commissioner.
Any proposal that she would put before this House would have my full support and confidence because I trust entirely her integrity in these matters.
The extreme right in this House, namely, has the effrontery to make a speech here like the one just made by my colleague Mr Gollnisch.
I ask myself the same question, when I think that in France an Algerian could meet you.
The Wiebenga report can make a useful contribution to that.
It is particularly important that in future the responsibility should be shared equally.
I would also like to congratulate the Commissioner on the fact that she has done well in finally producing the third pillar policy.
Amsterdam contains a promise in relation to the third pillar.
Then the articles about consensus or the majority decision.
We do not therefore feel that the Spanish proposals in this area should be approved, because if so we are really giving up Amsterdam, a second, very important aspect.
For those reasons I would like to say that our group will be particularly pleased if this report is well received, because a report like this deserves a very large majority.
Mr President, firstly let me congratulate Mr Wiebenga on his critical comments on the proposal for a Community action for the temporary protection of displaced persons.
A Member State should not be able to close its borders when there is a massive influx of immigrants, forcing displaced persons to enter an adjoining country illegally.
The most important point in this proposal, however, is the harmonization of the fundamental rights of displaced persons.
As the rapporteur has said, this proposal is in fact sharing responsibility within the Union.
I understand that the Commission proposals did not receive an altogether positive response from Council.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, misuse of a term has repeatedly occurred during this debate.
That would lead to extreme situations in our countries.
I am thankful that our colleague Wiebenga takes a step in the right direction in his report, particularly if we are successful in passing the amendments by Mr Nassauer and defeating the others.
As for unanimity, I believe we should use the Amsterdam compromise solution, in which we unanimously vote in the fundamentals for a new policy, and then react to routine policy challenges after five years with a qualified majority.
The main problem was that the number of people was so large that our capacity to examine asylum applications threatened to break down.
Mr President, in many respects the Commission's proposal can be seen as a compromise.
Our proposal therefore gives the Council of Ministers a large amount of flexibility.
My aim has been to avoid a situation where this part of the contents of the proposal jeopardise the possibility of reaching any agreement at all on temporary residence permits.
First, I have read the report of our colleague.
Secondly, it does not appear to me to be silly to envisage in the future - that is the whole meaning of our debate - massive inflows from south east Asia or north Africa, as have in the past been provoked in the past by socialist or communist policies.
Mr President, Mr Gollnisch's last remark in particular prompts my next comment: there are some people whom one must forgive anything, because of their deplorable state.
The debate is closed.
Furthermore cocoa, the basic product for chocolate, is an essential raw material for may countries of the South, and in particular those of West Africa and all of the ACP countries with whom we have privileged relationships.
It is therefore very clearly I think in the minds of many of us, a hot political dossier.
The proposal of the Commission seeks to modify the 1973 directive, so enabling Member States wishing to do so to authorise cocoa butter substitute vegetable fats in the composition of chocolate, of up to 5 % of the total weight.
This is a great deal, because 5 % of the total weight can represent up to nearly 30 % of the cocoa butter weight.
First, there is no method of precise and reliable method of analysis making it possible to quantify the presence of vegetable fats in chocolate.
Thirdly, there has been no prior evaluation of the negative consequences of the application of this directive for the cocoa producers, in particular the ACP producers.
Four, the Commission does not clearly lay down a designation enabling the consumer to make an enlightened choice, based on concrete information.
The position of the committee on environment, for public health and protection of consumers, which I represent here, satisfies me only partially, and I think that it satisfies only partially a number of my colleagues.
I shall recall the main positions of this Committee.
Firstly, it conditions the entry into force of the directive on the existence of a reliable method of analysis.
Fourthly, as regards designation, the Committee on the Environment proposes, and this is the decision of a majority which must be respected, to mention the presence of vegetable fats aside from the list of ingredients, which, according to my interpretation as a rapporteur, seems to me more restrictive that the Commission's proposal.
Furthermore, votes have been taken on riders recalling the obligations and commitments of the European Union with regard to the ACP countries and developing countries, but without following them up with articles.
First, 18 of the 21 amendments from the committee should be approved.
Some amendments submitted by a number of political groups aim at correcting this situation.
It contained a sentence, on point 97 stating that Parliament recalls the negative position adopted by the Commission in seeking to modify the cocoa directive, which illustrates the inconsistency of development policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I must inform you that a majority voted for raising the content of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter entering into the manufacture of chocolate to 5 %.
That being the case, I must say to you, on a personal basis, that I do not at all share this opinion and do so for four fundamental reasons of principle.
In my view, chocolate is a food product whose vegetable fat component is cocoa butter.
The consumers have a right to this product in all that is best about it.
I consider it to be unacceptable for Europeans participating next week at Lomé, in Togo, in the parital ACP-UE meeting to confirm an inconsistency in attitude and discourse on our part.
Africa is a natural complement to Europe.
Mr President, seldom has a draft directive led to so many problems as the one the Commission has now submitted to us.
Well, this directive will result in a drop in exports of 60, 000 and up to a maximum of 200, 000 tonnes of cacao from over ten third world countries and serious losses for millions of small cocoa farmers who are dependent on cocoa.
The Maastricht Treaty states that the Community shall comply with the commitments and take account of the objectives that it has approved in the context of the United Nations and other competent international organizations.
The Commission has in addition submitted a directive to us which states that 5 % alternative fats are permitted in chocolate throughout the Union whilst that 5 % cannot be precisely determined.
We consider that alternative fats have no place in chocolate and that the Commission must either set the directive at 0 % or withdraw it.
The only third party that will be laughing - and here I agree with Mr Happart - is the big chocolate industry, the big multinationals, which will be 40 million dollars a year better off.
If none of our views receives a majority, I shall as a last resort, and I stress that, vote for the amendments that Mrs Thyssen has tabled.
She asks that only tropical fats should be permitted as alternative fats and that the directive should not be allowed to enter into force until it is clear that that 5 % can be determined really accurately.
In principle I uphold my view: it must be nil, otherwise the Commission would do better to withdraw the proposal.
The European Commission has drawn up a proposal with two principles.
First, the Member States themselves decide on the use of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter.
Secondly, free movement must be guaranteed but with an additional labelling requirement for chocolate with vegetable fats.
Here again economic pressure is likely to undermine the proportionality principle.
The labelling requirement is very vague.
The Commission talks about clear, neutral and objective information in addition to the list of ingredients.
Obviously it is not simply whether we are for or against vegetable fats at a time when the use of vegetable fats is tolerated and permitted in seven Member States - which I find regrettable, but it is a fact.
The Committee on the Environment has expressed a similar view.
This amendment was adopted by a majority and we naturally uphold it.
Fifthly we in the Committee on the Environment call for a study to be made at a later date on the impact of this directive on sales of cocoa butter by developing countries.
We believe that this is the best way to serve the interests of the consumer.
From an Irish perspective, agriculture and the associated food industry are central to our economy, and the chocolate industry, which is the subject of this debate, is a very important component.
Ireland's quality chocolate sector employs 3, 000 people and uses 50 million gallons of milk and 40 tonnes of Irish sugar.
Irish milk chocolate - I was tempted to partake in the chocolate bar that was on display - is appreciated as a product of quality and provides high consumer satisfaction.
The Commission proposal to allow up to 5 % vegetable fat in the manufacture of chocolate is acceptable, as is the decision of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to allow the listing of vegetable fats with other ingredients.
The Commission proposal, which makes it possible to sell chocolate with vegetable fat in all 15 Member States instead of the present 7, is, in my view, to be commended, thus allowing the internal market to function properly.
If we are in favour of a real internal market, it is logical that we should allow not only freedom of movement but production anywhere.
Major producers can shift their production to countries where it is permitted and then sell their products under the same name in countries where it is prohibited.
Moving on to labelling, in a free market it is not up to the legislator to decide what ingredients the manufacturer is to use.
As article 2 of Directive 79/111 rightly states, consumers must not be confused.
This morning in the debate on the state of the Union, the leaders of Parliament's two largest groups referred to the Union's relations with the ACP countries and stressed the need for those relations to be based on fair trade.
Firstly may I say that Paul Lannoye, our representative on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, who was also rapporteur for this directive, soon had to accept that there was absolutely no support for the zero option in this Parliament.
Thirdly, it is therefore perfectly possible according to the labelling directive to use the name of the product and on this I entirely agree with Mr De Coene.
Fourthly it is clear that the Commission's draft proposal, which has not been improved on by the Committee on Environment, is totally at odds with the commitments we have entered into in the Lomé Convention and the international cocoa agreement, in which among other things the EU made a commitment to bigger cocoa butter sales.
The outcome in the Committee on Environment is now that information should be given in small print on the back, preferably actually in the name itself, and if that is unacceptable, we have to consider where would be most appropriate.
You said quite rightly that this is a bad proposal and then you end by saying: but let us support Mrs Thyssen's amendments.
Mr President, Mrs Aelvoet has addressed remarks to me and she has misunderstood me.
I said that if the zero level is not accepted - and amendments have been tabled on that - and if the referral back is not agreed to - amendments have been tabled on that as well - then in a worst case scenario Mrs Thyssen's amendments are still better than the 5 %.
But in my opinion the rapporteur should see at the end what the result is and if the result is good he should simply refer it back to the Commission.
Thank you very much, Mrs Maij-Weggen.
Mrs Aelvoet has mentioned my name three times.
Mrs Thyssen, if you wish to make a protest, I will ask you to speak at the end of the debate.
Mr President, I did not know the Commissioner was a specialist in chocolate, but this Wednesday her colleagues certainly had other obligations.
If our Parliament is as divided as it is today, and if passions are running high on this topic, this is not because Christmas and New Year are approaching, but much more because we are dealing with an essential dossier, which reveals the risks of an unwholesome slide from best practice in the internal market.
It is a shame, from this point of view, that the Commissioner responsible should not be present, even if I am happy to see you among our number.
To suit some new Member States and respect their national traditions, derogations were granted.
Unlike many of you, I am not a chocolate specialist, but I do see, as it happens, that the Commission is getting ready to generalise a practice which, according to its own admission, entails many risks.
We have laid down amendments - and other colleagues have also done so, enabling the Lannoye report to come out in accordance with the tradition of this House.
I believe that we have as our priorities not only the harmonization of the interests of our countries, but also the protection of the interests of our partners, such as the ACP countries.
I hope that Parliament will be able to defend these priorities without allowing itself to be carried away by soft harmonization, which may well turn out to have a very bitter taste.
The European Commission has tried to resolve the problems with the production and sale of chocolate products on the internal market in the simplest possible manner, namely by allowing maximum freedom for everyone in chocolate production.
That means complete freedom for everyone to use 5 % alternative fats.
That seems an attractive possibility, but it fails to take account of the differences that have existed between Member States for over twenty years as regards the use of fats.
We have to realize that there are a number of real problems in the internal market.
Makers of pure chocolate which contains no other fats are at a competitive disadvantage and the consumer can be deceived by a product name which fits in with his experience.
In my view therefore there is no reason not to be as clear as possible about what is and is not in the product.
Certainly the demand for chocolate has been on the increase for years, but a sudden change to 5 %, without accompanying measures, could prove disastrous for many developing countries.
Mr President, first congratulations to Mr Lannoye.
If the directive were adopted, it would force the Member States to market products with vegetable fats in their territory under the name of chocolate.
Consequently, products with vegetable fats were recompensed, thus making the superior product commonplace, no longer being pure cocoa chocolate, but a more expensive product falling under luxury products.
Being aware that, in the current state of technical know-how, determining the proportion of vegetable fats in chocolate is difficult and may have a 40 % error margin, we have submitted an amendment authorizing the replacement of up to 5 % of cocoa butter with vegetable fats in total weight of finished product, so as to quantify the obligations.
In West Africa, for example, cocoa is grown by over two million farmers with family involvement raising the number of people involved in the outcome of this crop to over 11 million.
Even the ACP producing countries (31 out of 70) would feel the negative impact of a Directive which, according to us, should have been based on a certain method of analysis in determining vegetable fats in the product, should have quantified the consequences on the course of the cocoa market by time, and it could certainly only have been effective later.
If we take into consideration the political and economic upsets that too hasty an adoption and a superficial study of the directive would bring, we think that this directive should be rejected, also in the light of the fight against poverty which the Union is involved in the developing countries, with a view to their gradual inclusion in the world economy.
I would just like to say two or three things to the rapporteurs and then to Members in the Chamber.
Mr Happart is not right when he says that chocolate as we have always manufactured it is ersatz chocolate.
They want us to call chocolate as manufactured in seven Member States ersatz chocolate.
Finally, in terms of milk chocolate, the decision to strike out the derogations on milk chocolate has no business in this debate.
The blockade, or chocolate guideline, really belongs on the scrapheap of European development.
It is imperative here that this mutual respect should be harmonised with the objectives of the internal market, and with the protection and information of the European consumer.
Thus it would be wrong to ban in Europe constituents from vegetable fats other than cocoa butter, or to make the use of these fats legally binding throughout Europe.
We have resolutions before us that would achieve this and would aim at a truly European initiative, namely casting the above mentioned respect for differing traditions into the shape of a guideline.
During the last amendment to the Labelling Guidelines this Parliament fought a hard battle with the Council of Ministers to prevent discriminatory labelling regulations which distorted the competitiveness of the product.
I have some reason to do so, as some twelve years ago I was myself in the same situation as he is now, having been the rapporteur at the time of the Commission's first attempt in this direction.
Today, as twelve years ago, the tune remains the same.
It is dangerous, because it very seriously damages the quality of our relationships and of our assistance to certain developing countries.
Instead I simply draw your attention, Mr President, to the question of inspection regarding the 5 % limit on substitute vegetable fats.
Twelve years ago, the Commission said these methods would be developed.
Mr President, there are cultural and emotional aspects to chocolate of course, but without being a specialist, I would like to talk about taste.
And addition of other fatty matter deteriorates the quality.
With the first enlargement of the Community, the new Member States benefited from a derogation which authorised 5 % of the total weight of the chocolate to be vegetable fat.
At present, seven Member States use this derogation, and eight support the initial prohibition.
Under pressure from the multinational chocolate companies, the Commission adopted a draft directive on 17 April 1996 whose purpose was to allow Member States the option to authorise the addition of vegetable fat in the name of the free circulation of goods.
Its application would, and we all know it, have had immense repercussions both on the quality of chocolate and on the revenues of the cocoa-producing ACP countries.
Furthermore, there are no accurate and easily-usable techniques to measure the quantity of fat in chocolate.
The cocoa-producing developing countries would have suffered a substantial loss in revenues, valued at some $ 300 million, due both to loss of market outlet and pressure on prices.
In the name of defence of the quality of chocolate and in the interests of the cocoa-producing ACP countries, I am in favour of rejecting the directive in order to give a strong signal to the Council.
If the Council really wishes for Europe-wide harmonization, let it prohibit the addition of other fats than cocoa butter throughout the whole of the European Union, and not leave the Member States any possibility of derogation.
They do not want substitute chocolate, but genuine chocolate made from cocoa butter.
Chocolate made with synthetic fats, such as soybean and rapeseed oil, does not just stick in the throats of gourmets, but approval of these ersatz materials would have disastrous consequences in developing countries, because demand there would fall away.
The European Parliament must insist on clear designation.
Members of the Committee on Environment simply wanted to ensure that synthetic vegetable fats in chocolate were recorded in the constituents list, but we know that only 4 % of consumers ever read the small print.
We know that chocolate is a substitute drug, but we want no substitute materials in chocolate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall say it quite clearly, personally, I and my group are totally hostile to the draft directive before us, and in particular to article 2.
My point of view will perhaps appear excessively simple, but I believe that chocolate should be made with cocoa, and that any product obtained from other constituent should have another name, quite simply.
Although not so serious, the matter before us is a matter of real concern, as the rapporteur has reminded us, and everything that needs to be said has been said on the technical and commercial aspects of this question.
The quality that we need to promote, is the quality of product, whose singularity, inner qualities, and the cultural aspect of its use, makes a contribution to reconciling man with the best of himself, even if here we are dealing only with chocolate.
If there were to be harmonization, this should happen from the top, by introducing the most elevated requirements and not bottom-up, as our citizens would refuse a Europe which was so conceived.
This is the reason why, Mr President, with the unanimous backing of the Group of the European Radical Alliance, I oppose this draft, and I support the amendments which are in radical opposition to it.
Mr President, when we discuss chocolate today, we find there are national differences of opinion, as we have different traditions and rules on what vegetable foodstuffs can be used in making chocolate.
The rules in seven countries have considered the cocoa-producing countries.
The rules in eight countries have guaranteed women in the poorest countries such as Burkina Faso and Mali exports of shea nuts which account for 20 % of their national product.
It should be stated that what some Member States have always called chocolate must continue to go by that name, and that marking must be used to show what vegetable foodstuffs are used.
This will give the developing countries the assurance that they can continue to export the products which they produce naturally.
If these proposed amendments are accepted, it would be totally unacceptable to allow any vegetable foodstuffs other than cocoa butter should be used, and I say that as a Dane.
The novel foods directive only applies to markings, whereas what the developing countries need is that production should not take place in the first place.
The dictatorship of the single market inevitably results in the dictatorship of a single regulation.
No, it is not to respect honest information to the consumer to describe as chocolate products including vegetable fat other than cocoa, in particular when we know that it will be difficult to actually check the percentages of the different fats included.
It is not to respect the diversity and quality of products, to be able to sell as chocolate fat-based products based on karite or palm oil, or even soya or rapeseed.
It is behaving as General de Gaulle feared it would in the past, as a Commission of the Congress of the United States of America.
The Members of Parliament from the National Front will vote against this draft directive.
Everyone who wants to sell a product wants free trade in goods.
Those who like eating Swiss chocolate - and I am an expert on every chocolate in the world - are very surprised when they learn that there is vegetable fat in it.
To believe that to say that just because vegetable fat - and I repeat, vegetable fat - is used in Great Britain or Sweden, this makes it a chocolate substitute, is an arrogance towards the whole population there, who are accustomed to this chocolate and like eating it.
I am convinced that the ingredients list for a product must contain details of what is in the product.
That applies equally to cocoa butter, dry cocoa, and vegetable fats other than cocoa butter.
The Commission must therefore explain to Parliament what has brought it to submit this proposal, which goes against the interests of consumers, which will seriously affect the economy of third countries that fully cooperate with the Community, and which even breaches the principle of the adequate provision of information.
Madam Commissioner, we shall never understand why the Commission did not adopt the simple formula of distinguishing between the generic designation of a product and the specific designation of particular products derived from the basic product.
I believe that the principle of quid pro quo in the food field is leading the European Commission down an unacceptable road, and this is why all the political groups are expressing their concern.
Mr President, in February 1995, at the Joint Assembly of ACP countries and the European Union which was held in Dakar, Commissioner Pinheiro declared that there was no proposal to change the existing rules in the chocolate directive, and he ended by saying that to include fat other than cocoa butter would have serious consequences for many ACP countries.
Today, within a few days of the Joint Assembly in Togo, we cannot but observe that these commitments have not been respected.
We will lose the quality of our chocolate, and we will have to cope with the financial deficits arising from our own shameless attitude with regard to those who put their trust in us.
There is an interesting letter from the Swedish food industry, which like other Swedish industries carries a great responsibility for the fact that EU regulations play any role at all in Swedish legislation.
The Green Party in Sweden has always demanded that trade policy be conducted on the basis of social and environmental considerations.
It is also reasonable not to allow genetically modified or other new ingredients, but to limit the permitted substitute fats in chocolate products to those which are now in use in Sweden, amongst other places, as demanded by the Green Group's Amendments Nos 58 and 59.
All this, Mr President, for the benefit of the multinationals, whose profit rates are as high as 90 %.
The truth is quite simple.
But it is also a question of a great emotional conflict: cultural identity that is very strong in countries such as Belgium and Italy, historic producers of historic and magnificent chocolates; childhood for many of us; levels of rationality and levels of irrational nostalgia.
But what is chocolate?
Since the discovery of cocoa in the sixteenth century and since its introduction into Europe, chocolate has been obtained from cocoa products.
With the recent entry of three new countries with the same habits, and in the presence of the single market, we are faced with the need for harmonization.
The Italian national delegation to which I belong will only digress on one point: that of labelling, with the aim, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of better protecting the consumer, by enabling him to read, alongside the name of the product, whether it is cocoa-based chocolate or whether it is a product with a fairly high percentage of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter.
We thought we were joining a common market, and the amazing fact is that it has taken 24 years to try to agree a common market in chocolate.
On 25 March 1996 the Italian Ministry of Health issued a notice stating that chocolate from the United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark could only be marketed in Italy under the name surrogate chocolate.
What we want in the United Kingdom is a free common market.
In particular, we reject the amendments which would tend, first of all, to make the statement on vegetable fat part of the name of the product or place it on the front of the product.
After all, what is cocoa butter if it is not a vegetable fat, and why should we not simply rely on the labelling directive which says that all labelling must be clear, visible and indelible?
They had 24 years to think this one up, and then at the last moment somebody comes forward with the idea that we should verify the presence of vegetable fat.
The net effect of this directive would, we believe, be to increase the chocolate market to the advantage of consumers, cocoa and vegetable fat producers.
Mr President, as the debate this afternoon has shown, this directive is about feelings and interests.
We have the developing countries, we have the chocolate makers, we have the consumers, and we have so-called good taste.
We must be able to make the choice ourselves as consumers, and so we are in favour of markings which are neutral, objective and clear and are right next to the list of ingredients.
That is my recommendation to my colleagues this afternoon.
My name has been mentioned by Mrs Jackson and she has invited me to come and explain.
Mr De Coene, although your intervention was brief, I must remind you of the Rule that, in the present circumstances, where it is a matter of explaining some personal position which in your view has not been correctly stated, you are entitled to do so at the end of the debate.
Mr President, I was born in the country of Côte d'Or, of Leonidas and of Ferrero which, as is not apparent from their names, are of Belgian origin, a country of truly great chocolate.
Mrs Jackson referred to a firm in her constituency.
Portugal should really be brought before the European Court of Justice because it infringed the existing European legislation and already permits the other fats.
It is unfair and inexplicable that the European Commission has not brought Portugal before the European Court of Justice.
Mr President, I am for the most part in agreement with Mrs Jackson's argument.
As regards international trade, I am surprised that our Committee on External Economic Relations is actually present at this debate.
As regards Amendment No 7 tabled by Mrs Thyssen - for whom I have the greatest respect, for what she has said here among other things - is it not inconsistent with our World Trade Organization and GATT obligations just to speak about tropical fat imports?
It also strikes me that in this debate it seems just as if the next thing is it will be forbidden in the European Union to use 100 % cocoa to manufacture chocolate.
In the debate about chocolate, however, much more is at stake.
In the medium-term we need a fair partnership between European consumers and producing countries.
Mr President, the Directive which we are discussing today dates from 1973, when it was decided that ordinary milk chocolate must contain a minimum of 25 % cocoa, while dark chocolate must contain a minimum of 35 % cocoa.
Some people insist of course that allowing 5 % vegetable foodstuffs to be used means that the product cannot be called chocolate at all.
Nothing in this directive changes the basic rule that there must a minimum of 25 % and 35 % cocoa in the product respectively before it can be called chocolate.
In other words, as we have seen today, this is one area where the single European market is not functioning.
It is said that we should use cocoa butter out of consideration for the cocoa-exporting countries of Africa, but the dispute is after all only about the maximum 5 % of the chocolate product which vegetable foodstuffs can comprise, so this matter can hardly be catastrophic for the countries concerned.
One of the poorest countries in the world, Burkina Faso, in fact depends on its exports of shea nuts.
For these reasons, we will vote in favour of these amendments which, at least, plan to indicate clearly in the name and labelling of the products the essential characteristics of their composition, particularly with regard to the presence of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter, which are not the subject of specific measures by chance.
Mr President, first and foremost I would like to thank the rapporteur on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the great amount of work which has been done on this issue.
The European Council in Edinburgh gave the Commission the task of working for a simplification of a whole series of Community rights.
It concerns the question of using vegetable fats other than cocoa butter in chocolate.
In the Commission's proposal we have tried to solve the problem in the following way.
First and foremost the Member States will from now on have the right to allow their chocolate producers to use up to 5 % of other vegetable fats in addition to the proportions of cocoa and cocoa butter laid down in the proposal.
In addition, the Member States who in future still want to forbid their chocolate producers from using vegetable fats other than cocoa butter will have the right to do so.
The Commission can only approve amendments which respect these principles.
A lot has been said about the consequences this proposal could have for developing countries.
Of the other amendments, we can accept Amendment No 14 on the use of additives and Amendments Nos 19 and 20 on the definition of 'gianduja' chocolate.
Amendments Nos 28 and 29 concern the date of the coming into force of the new directive.
As regards the question of analyses which make it possible to check whether the chocolate contains vegetable fat other than cocoa butter, the Commission will of course ensure that an effective method is introduced before the directive enters into force.
Finally, the Commission is unable to accept the three proposed amendments concerning coffee extract and chicory.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Gradin.
Secondly, I note, on hearing what she has just said, that the Commission systematically rejects all the politically significative amendments which have been supported today.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 10 a.m.
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, I also wish to apologize to you in particular, and I am sure that, in view of the circumstances, the President-in-Office will have no objection to giving you a written reply.
It is out of order that our time was taken up by the programme.
Thank you, Mr von Habsburg.
The personal authority which you enjoy and the words that you just spoken will increase my sense of responsibility when it comes to raising this matter with the Bureau.
The Parties agreed by an overwhelming majority of two-thirds to downlist only the populations of African elephant of Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe back to Appendix II of the Convention.
For the leading conservation organizations, this firm decision rewards the conservation success of the three African nations whose elephant populations should never have been listed in the CITES Appendix I.
The mechanisms and procedures agreed in Harare provide every assurance of adequate safeguards and the conditional decision to allow such trade to resume in the future will prove to be positive and will be of benefit in the long term to elephant conservation throughout Africa.
In reply to the question that was raised, I would emphasize first - as the honourable Member has just reminded us - that the tenth conference of the parties to the CITES Convention made a number of important decisions, whose purpose was, on an experimental basis, and once a number of conditions had been met, to allow a limited trade in ivory between three African states and Japan.
These decisions take into account progress made in some African countries with regard to the management of the elephant population, while noting that, in other countries, substantial effort is still required.
As regards the implementation of the Harare decisions, the Council has still not had submitted to it the final text of these decisions, nor the evaluation of those texts by the Commission.
I would simply say to the previous speaker, that the Commission is already contributing as part of the actions under management of DG VIII.
Thank you, Mr Wohlfart.
Question No 3 by Patricia McKenna (H-0689/97): Subject: British arms supplies to Indonesia The British Government recently announced that it would proceed with contracts to sell 16 Hawk trainer aircraft, 50 Alvis armoured cars and Tactica water cannon to Indonesia.
Factors to be taken into account include the human rights record of countries buying arms from EU states.
The Council is always vigilant with respect to human rights in East Timor.
The promotion of the respect of human rights and of democracy is an integral part of the Union's foreign policy.
The Council, like the European Parliament, will continue to monitor with concern the situation in East Timor, and expresses its concern regarding this matter each time that it arises.
Within this context, it firmly supports the negotiations taking place between Portugal and Indonesia, under the aegis of the General Secretary of the United Nations.
Having said that, the Council has not up to now officially considered the possible imposition of an embargo on arms supply to Indonesia.
The Council will continue, nevertheless, to monitor the situation in Indonesia and in East Timor.
There are stories going around at the moment that in Britain they are going to actually block sales to certain countries in the world because of the campaign against the arms trade.
No details were given on the types of arms that would be exported, their value, or the decisions that would likely be taken regarding the other 44 licences.
Groups campaigning against the arms trade have been very frustrated by this.
It is unacceptable that we sit back here in the European Union and do nothing about it.
She simply commented and regretted the fact that to date, the Council had not taken a decision on other measures, notably a possible embargo on arms supply to Indonesia.
I believe that you and I might well be able to discuss for hours a subject which is close to your heart, but I will simply repeat that the Council has not to date been able to undertake an official examination of the possible imposition of the arms embargo to Indonesia.
This may be regrettable, but these are the facts.
Question No 4 by Arthur Newens (H-0693/97): Subject: EU banana regime - WTO panel ruling Following the debate in the European Parliament on 16 September, would the Council please make a statement about the options which are open to it and what action it plans to take to counteract the likely effects on small banana producers following rejection of the appeal to the WTO Panel?
That being said, at this stage, the Council has not yet been able to take a position on the report on the appeal organ for settlement of World Trade Organization disputes, nor on the action to be taken with regard to this business.
I can assure you that the presidency will spare no effort if proposals from the Commission are rapidly presented with a view to reconciliation of the recent decision of the WTO with the interests of European producers in particular.
I think it is our duty to try to make a decision as quickly as possible.
I propose to place this point on the Council Agenda for its General Affairs meeting of 10 November, because we are going to devote this Council to the revision of the Lomé convention, and I believe that this is a topic of current interest.
I shall try to act in such a way that the message gets through to the Commission, which will be represented, and I also rely on members of Parliament to exercise the necessary pressure on the Commission.
The fifteen month deadline could in reality be extended to sixteen or seventeen months.
But I am pleased that the complexity, not only in technical but also in political terms, of the question has been admitted.
At all events, I think that we should get down to this task as quickly as possible, however complex it may be.
The reply of the President-in-office of the Council to this question will be very brief.
I think that the Council directive relating to packaging and packaging waste adopted on 20 December 1994 provides for the reutilisation and the recycling of packaging, but not for the standardisation of drinks bottles and cans, for example.
According to the information at my disposal, although I am not a member of the Commission, it would appear that other Member States do not encounter the same difficulties in this respect.
I must also emphasize that it is no more the responsibility of the Council, at least not at this stage, to take a position on a question relating to the provision of a treaty which is not yet in force, although it may in the intervening period have been signed.
Thank you for your answer, but just as you suspected, I am not entirely satisfied with it.
I think the situation we find ourselves in is completely absurd.
The citizens of several countries shall now vote in referendums on this, but the Council of Ministers, which wrote the Treaty, is not prepared to say what the Treaty means.
For example, I go to meetings every week in Sweden and I am asked about what various things in the Amsterdam Treaty mean.
I would therefore like to urge you to be able to answer the next time I ask a question about the actual content of the treaty.
Mr Sjöstedt is well aware of my opinion on this subject.
He has just alluded to the referendums which will be held in some countries of the European Union.
This treaty will, incidentally, be revised - I am well informed in this respect - in the years to come, because the process of integration is a dynamic one.
It therefore does not have the same value as scientific proof.
Thank you, Mr Wohlfart.
The Council is determined to support the poor countries which are heavily indebted.
The Commission recently presented a paper proposing a community response to the initiative in favour of such countries, launched by the international community in the wake of the Lyons summit, with a view of lightening the debt burden of these countries.
This proposal is currently being examined within the Council.
The Member States, particularly as within the framework of the Paris Club, as well as community institutions, have stated that they would associate with the initiative in question.
They will make an appropriate contribution to this international commitment in favour of the poorest countries of the planet.
The participation of the European Union and of its Member States was also recently confirmed in Hong Kong at the time of the annual general meetings of the IMF and of the World Bank.
He has mentioned debt, which amounts to 65 % of these countries' GDP.
This is a truly heavy burden, and I believe that we shall be able to discuss this question at the General Affairs Council of 10 November.
I hope that we shall be able to agree not only to ask the Commission to present a concrete proposal in the months to come regarding the financial effort which might be supported by the European Union and its Member States, but also the strategy which should be adopted by the European Union to ensure its voice is heard in international fora.
Question No 8 by Hugh McMahon (H-0702/97): Subject: Agenda 2000 Can the Luxembourg Presidency inform Parliament as to the outcome of discussions on Agenda 2000 at the Foreign Affairs Council on 15 September 1997?
I would like to make a brief summary of the voluminous documents, relating not only to the evolution of Union policies, but particularly to structural and agricultural policies, as well as to the oh so important financial framework of the Union beyond the year 2000, as well as to a certain number of general questions related to the enlargement process, and finally, to the Commission opinion on the countries applying for membership.
The orientation debate on Agenda 2000, which was held by the Council in its session of 15 September last, enabled the presidency to take note of the initial reflections of the Member States on the general tendencies that we have been able to identify, on the one hand, namely the deepening and development of Union policies and its future financial framework, and on the other hand, the decisions to be taken by the European Council for the process of enlargement as a whole.
This debate has now identified the essential political elements which will naturally require in-depth examination from the perspective of the report that the Council will be called on to present to the European Council at Luxembourg in December.
The Presidency, as is its duty, will spare no effort to contribute throughout the whole of this semester to a drawing together of positions so that we can reach the decisions that are required in the interest of the Union and of the candidate countries on all of the questions related to the enlargement process, at the time of the European Council of Luxembourg.
Mr President, I was interested to hear what the President-in-office had to say about the efforts which the Luxembourg Presidency are going to make to endeavour to find a compromise between the differing views of the individual Member States.
Secondly, in regard to the point being put forward by several Members of the Council that there should be further institutional change prior to enlargement, what impetus or weight will the Luxembourg Presidency give to this?
This question relating to the date and deadlines calls for some comments on my part.
Firstly, the date itself of the European Council, which was fixed for 12 and 13 December, has imposed upon us an extremely tight schedule.
Furthermore, I believe that we are deploying every effort at all levels to ensure that preparations for the Council go ahead as they should, so as to reach the consensus which is absolutely necessary on questions such as enlargement and other connected questions.
But consensus is necessary and it will, I am convinced, be obtained.
Be these ministers of foreign affairs or ministers with technical briefs, we are also pursuing regular contacts with our counterparts in the countries of the European Union.
This was also an opportunity for the Luxembourg presidency, after the decision of the Amsterdam summit, to make contact at ministerial level with central and eastern European countries who wish to become part of the European Union.
I think, Mr President, that I can say, with your permission, that this ministerial level meeting took place in conditions, if I might put it so, of frank friendliness, in a very open spirit, and that we were able to avoid what we might call a breakdown.
People were fully aware of the fact that they were engaged in a historic process, a process which deserved our getting deeply involved in it, because this is the only alternative for the year 2000 and beyond.
I can only tell you that, all together, with the Commission and the other Member States, we are doing our very best to be ready on time.
It is a very heated debate, and I will simply say that as regards my country, Luxembourg, the figures, which are not always correct, make it appear sometimes as a beneficiary of funds and at other times as a net provider of funds.
As regards enlargement, I have glanced at the statistics relating to our trading relationships with the central and eastern European countries.
But if you look at the statistics on our external trade with these countries, as the European Union, despite the setting up of free trade areas, in spite of the advantageous conditions granted, it is a fact that the balance of trade is very much in favour of the European Union.
I, personally, am convinced that the non-membership of these central and eastern European countries, on the basis of objective criteria and a well-spaced timetable, will at the end of the day be much more costly than membership.
It is a challenge, Mrs McCarthy, I am convinced of this, just I am convinced that it is a historic opportunity for this continent.
Question No 9 by Sören Wibe (H-0704/97): Subject: Classification of Schengen manuals According to reports in Sweden the Swedish Government has classified two out of three Schengen manuals.
These are instructions for the conduct of the checks at the external borders and the exchange of information between the Member States.
Mr President, it is with pleasure that I reply to this question, as I was one of the signatories to the Schengen agreement in 1990, already some years back.
To reply to the double question raised, I would say that on its meeting of 16 October 1997, six days ago, the Committee of Permanent Representatives set up a working group with responsibility for examining questions relating to the Schengen manuals and their assignment to the first and third pillars.
This group, who will begin its work tomorrow, 23 October.
This in no way calls into question the principle of transparency reaffirmed by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
A large part of that should also be able to be made public, but I understand that some technical details must be kept secret.
I believe that the Presidency and the members of the working group do intend to bear in mind the legitimate concerns of the European Parliament and national parliamentarians regarding the transparency of operation of the Schengen system.
Even so, I think I can say that with the new provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which re-establishes the Schengen manuals at the Community level, we have now made a great step forward, even though there will still need to be improvements, of that I am convinced.
It is also possible to conceive of a public debate, like so many others, here in the European Parliament on Schengen operations.
I think this would be a good way to prove that we really do wish for transparency within the system, in the way Schengen operates on a day to day basis.
Secondly, another major debate in the Schengen context is that of the protection of privacy, which involves everything relating to personal data.
I think that in this respect you are all in agreement with me and acknowledge that we have to be extremely prudent, and that for evident reasons for the protection of human life, that access to such data must be limited to persons who are really authorized.
I think we will need to articulate our works around these two lines of action: transparency and protection of privacy.
You mentioned the instructions to the external border controls.
In addition, I wonder whether the process of assessing the announcement will be finished before the ratification of the treaty in the Member States begins?
For Sweden and Denmark, for example, the Amsterdam Treaty means the countries will also become a part of Schengen for the first time.
Mr President, I have the impression that things are a little vague, a little too vague yet with regard to the Schengen manuals.
I remember a very interesting debate in 1991, in which European Parliamentarians levelled two fundamental criticisms against the Schengen initiative: that negotiations relating to the Schengen convention of application had taken place as part of an intergovernmental conference, without the involvement of the European Parliament.
Furthermore, at the time I was a little surprised - and I say so without bitterness and without cynicism - that so many people, right down to our national parliaments made every possible sort of claim when they raised Schengen.
Either they said "Big Brother is watching you' - purely and simply the police state intervening in all fields, or else it was exactly the opposite.
I think that we will need to be very prudent in the management of some dossiers.
Question No 10 by Anne McIntosh (H-0707/97): Subject: Abolition of Duty Free sales As the Council prepares for its extraordinary summit on Employment, does it not understand the contradiction of continuing with the abolition of Duty Free sales in 1999, and the unemployment that this would cause in the transport and tourism sectors, alongside moves to promote job creation?
Indeed, I would like to say straight away that there is no really new element in this dossier, which is one particularly close to her heart.
Indeed, the circulation between Member States of goods privately purchased by individuals for their personal use is now a matter of no consequence from the point of view of tax law.
Hence individuals may purchase goods intended for their personal use in any Member State and take these goods into any other state whatsoever without needing to declare them and pay border taxes.
While the Council, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, temporarily extended duty free sales to inter-Community travellers until 30 June 1999, it did so out of a concern to offset the social and regional difficulties that might have arisen from sudden abolition of duty free sales.
The statement just made by the President-in-Office of the Council makes a complete mockery of the concept of an employment summit to be held in Luxembourg.
The numbers employed in duty-free sales by airports, airlines, sea ports and ferries are substantial, in particular in countries like the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden, where nobody enjoys the same low duties as those paid in particular in Luxembourg and Belgium.
Nevertheless, with every due respect, I would not like to make a link between one of the provisions of the internal market and the employment summit at Luxembourg.
I would simply like to say one thing, Mr President, on the internal market, as I have had responsibility for the internal market dossier for some eight years now.
The aim of free movement of goods, services, capital and persons, which should 100 % in force on 1 January 1999, is an aim which in the medium term certainly will ensure the creation of new jobs.
In a first assessment on the operation of the internal market, which the Commission drew up in November last year, it appears - according to Commission estimates - that there were up to 900, 000 new jobs created simply by the implementation of the single market on 1 January 1993.
This is the reason why the European Council has adopted the proposals of the Commission seeking to launch this internal market action plan, with four strategic objectives for the effective and unhindered implementation of the single market between now and 1 January 1999.
Hence, once all these conditions have been met, the full development of this single market will be possible, and also, by the year 2000, the creation of new jobs arising from the 100 % implementation of the single market.
But I said this also, because I am convinced that some tax provisions, of state or other origin, could in the shorter term have as their consequence - and I stress in the shorter term - the painful loss of jobs.
Of course, we must not underestimate the fact that in the short term, some problems could arise, relating to regulatory tax and other provisions that I have just mentioned.
First, you know, Ms Oddy, that in airports there are also flights which go outside the European Community.
However that may be, if your question was raised in connection with airports, other people could just a surely raise the same question relating to connections by sea.
It took its decision in full knowledge, and there were certainly, unless I am wrong, discussions here in this Parliament.
I do not know whether, at the time, there was a full understanding of the constraints, or shall we say the experience - that I myself would say was painful experience - which was to arise in this field, but the fact is that we opted for a transitional period of six years - and I can only repeat myself, Mr President - to ensure that the interested parties were able to prepare, so far as possible, for this new situation in the airports, as well as in the ports and on board ships.
I wish to congratulate the President-in-Office on his firmness in the face of what, frankly, has been a very unscrupulous and dishonest lobbying of this Parliament.
Mr Wohlfart, do you wish to answer Mr Cassidy's question or make any comments?
Mr Cushnahan, allow me to tell you that that was not a point of order.
Perhaps they referred to you with some alias or nickname that I do not know.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council has always supported the efforts of the Nicaraguan democratic forces to achieve a national dialogue and wishes most strongly that we could strengthen the agreements that we have already come to and develop dialogue with all sectors of civil society.
Furthermore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council hopes that Nicaragua, in order to enter successfully and harmoniously the world economy, will be able to draw benefit from the process of integration currently underway among countries in the San José group.
The Council has supported the San José group from the moment it was founded, and in this context, welcomes the recent decision taken in Managua by the member countries to provide for common institutions based on the European Union model.
I trust that the Council will continue to show the very greatest concern about that country because it needs our help and assistance.
Furthermore, I must point out, Mr President, that it is not the responsibility of the Council to make assessments on the positions taken by the governments of the Member States, nor to interpret those positions.
I should like to ask the President-in-Office if he would bear in mind that this is a European Union prize financed by the European Union; a prize for translation, which is the essence of our exchange of culture, close to the hearts of all of us, paid for by the European citizen.
Therefore I feel that there are financial interests raised by this matter.
But I do not make any commitment in this respect as President, simply as Minister for Cooperation.
Thank you, Mr Cushnahan.
Mr Posselt, at the start of Question Time, I apologized for the delay, first to the President-in-Office of the Council, and then to all the Members of Parliament, and said that I would refer the matter to the Bureau.
Secondly, this House is sovereign on this matter.
If enough Members shared Mr Posselt's view of Question Time, we could change it to 5 pm.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the whole point of this guideline proposal is better to equip insurance supervisory authorities in assessing the actual solvency of individual insurance companies within a group.
In accordance with the third Accident Insurance Guideline and the 3rd Life Insurance Guideline of 1992, insurance supervision in the European Union currently covers the licencing and continuous supervision of the insurance sector.
The aim of the proposed resolution is the extension of the supervision guidelines on individual supervision of insurance companies - solo supervision - by additional supervisory regulations - solo-plus supervision - for those insurance companies that are part of an insurance group.
In this context I should like to come now to four points.
The Commission proposes the inclusion of minority holdings of at least 20 %, or of non-controlled insurance companies, into the scope of the guideline.
The participation of 20 % does not, however, represent any relevant value for the inclusion of parent companies.
The 20 % limit fails to take cognisance of the fact that regulations for corporations in Europe already exist within the framework of the 7th Company Guideline.
Despite this the following is applicable: double gearing opens up opportunities for a business to extend its business activities without additional capital resources, by, instead of using other assets, investing in another company which already uses the invested capital as the basis of its business activity.
The Commission and also some of the insurance supervisory bodies in the Member States regard double gearing as undermining the existing regulations on solvency of insurance companies.
The majority of the Committee, however, took the view that supervisory legislation to counter the effects of double gearing were only needed insofar as double gearing was a source of danger to insurance companies, and thus consumers.
Such a danger does not come about merely with a minority holding of 20 %, but when there are majority rights, and when the qualitative elements of a guiding influence or a single management board are added to a minority holding.
Secondly, in accordance with the Commission's proposal, after calculation of net solvency of insurance groups, certain capital resources should not be taken into account, if they were acknowledged as capital resources by Solo supervision.
Otherwise we should have the grotesque situation whereby the same insurance company which had industrial participation, could continue to use these particular capital resources within the solo supervision system, but these means would cease being capital resources the moment it took on supervised insurance subsidiary companies.
The majority of the Committee felt that the inclusion of holding companies was justified.
If a holding company at the head of the group goes into receivership, the insurance companies in which it has invested do not lose their capital, but the shareholders in the holding company do.
The Committee did not agree the suggestion.
And fourthly, the Commission also includes re-insurance companies in its proposal.
Reinsurance protection is thus a further quality characteristic for consumer protection in the insurance sector.
A majority of the Committee, therefore, voted against excluding re-insurance companies, but also against a Member State's right of choice.
Amendment No 22, which has been reintroduced on behalf of the party, is a new compromise attempt aiming to make it possible for Member States to bring in legislation, so that re-insurers are not included in the audited solvency position in accordance with Annex 1.
My group agrees with the general spirit of the Commission's proposal.
We believe it is important to harmonize our respective laws on this subject in order to guarantee the major market.
The point of disagreement which remains - and it is not slight - relates to the inclusion of holding companies and re-insurance companies within the scope of the directive.
Along with the majority of the judicial committee we think that the directive must cover these situations, in the interests of the consumers, in the interest of those insured, but also to guarantee the equality of operators, in particular the cooperative societies in view of the European law.
We cannot accept the other amendments from the EPP Group which seem to us to put at risk the balance of the text issued by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
We hope that the spirit of compromise which breathes through the text resulting from our votes will be respected by the House.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the directive on the supplementary supervision of insurance undertakings in an insurance group is not only desirable but also necessary.
Amendment No 22 allows Member States to exclude reinsurers from the adjusted solvency calculation.
Secondly, on Amendments Nos 23 and 24, this allows the funds of an insurance company arising from outside the group to be taken into account in the holding company test.
There is some difficulty with Amendment No 25.
Finally, we should support Amendment No 27, but not Amendment No 26.
The proposed Directive on insurance groups constitutes a major stage in the completion of the single market in insurance.
Furthermore, this proposal will facilitate the elimination of certain distortions of competition on the European insurance market.
It is intended simply to guarantee the solvency margin currently required by community directives on insurance which will be effectively respected.
It nevertheless seeks to guarantee that the financial situation of these companies will be duly taken into account to determine if the insurance companies in the group of which they form part meet the required solvency criteria.
Concerning the amendments proposed by your Assembly, I have the pleasure of informing you that the Commission agrees to accept partially the Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 14.
For Amendment No 3, the reference to the first sentence of article 17 of the fourth directive on company law is acceptable, on condition that the rest of the definition remains unchanged.
With regard to Amendment No 14 - I believe that this was the second point of your statement, Mrs Mosiek-Urbahn - only the first paragraph and the first two hyphens, which list the elements which are eligible for the calculation of the solvency margin and already allowed by current insurance directive, can be accepted.
I then refer to another group of amendments which can be accepted in their spirit conditional on certain changes to their wording.
This relates to Amendments Nos 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 23, 24 and 27.
A word about Amendments Nos 18 and 19 - It was, I believe, the third point in your statement, Mrs Mosiek-Urbahn - concerning holding companies.
The creation of artificial separate funds by an indirect method by holding companies might serve to mask the real solvency situation of an insurance company and the holding company, excessively in debt, thus risks creating financial tensions in the group by seeking to repay this debt.
If the proposal takes holding companies into account it is in order to be able to evaluate accurately the solvency of insurance companies..
The proposal does not, however, impose any requirements on the holding companies as such.
Its adoption would deprive the proposal of an important part of its impact.
In fact, this Amendment No 8 would considerably reduce the scope of the directive by limiting the field of applications solely to parent-branch relationships.
This amendment would have a negative impact on the protection enjoyed currently by consumers and those who are insured, for it would authorise insurance groups to evade more easily the rules of solvency.
For the same reasons the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 22, which would leave to the discretion of Member States the application to re-insurance companies the key provisions of the directive.
These are Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6, 9, 20, 25 and 26.
Finally, I shall end, Mr President, by mentioning just one point which was raised just now by several speakers who wanted to know if this proposal would create additional costs.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning.
But what has been done, or rather acquired, with the decisive support of our Parliament is now insufficient, incomplete and would also encounter further difficulties of application in a panorama devastated by enormous technological developments, which we usually include in the somewhat hazy but fascinating concept of a global information society.
These objectives are all essential to the European Union, which is called upon to be ever more present and active with its identifiable voice in international places, starting from the World Intellectual Property Organization.
I would say, in passing, that I have always considered a good antitrust legislation to be a priority question in this framework, even at European level, avoiding the abnormal formation of dominant positions in a sector in which it is essential to guarantee the citizens' right to a multiplicity of information.
The subject of my report is copyright and related rights.
Guaranteeing the protection of works, guaranteeing copyright in its new forms, is a fundamental fact to ensure a democratic, useful development consistent with the information society and all the opportunities to which it should give rise.
With no good rules, with no regard for the integrity and authenticity of languages with which the authors' works are nourished, there can be no good, sound European cultural industry, nor can the authors' creativity be guaranteed and assured for, without any rules, there would be no moral respect or specific remuneration.
I should like to conclude by pointing out that moral rights as well, which are contested internationally but which are typical of European culture, should be strengthened, should be considered to be one of the aspects by which Europe presents itself in the international context to ensure a protection that is not aimed solely at remuneration but also at the inseparable relationship between works and authors, since works are no more than a projection of the creative activity and a relationship with the public that is renewed each time in terms of continuity and in such terms as to merit deep and absolute respect.
The legal protection of the integrity of technical protection and identification schemes must also be harmonized.
The right of distribution will be harmonized, in order to enshrine the principle of exhaustion of the right only at the moment of first sale in the Community by or with the consent of the right holder.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights proposes that a single, coherent legislative proposal be presented covering the main issues referred to: the right of reproduction, the right of communication to the public and the right of distribution.
However - and this is perhaps the most important shift - this exclusive right must not prevent the achievement of a fair balance between the rights, responsibilities and interests of the various right holders.
Likewise, this fair balance must apply to the rights of right holders, of economic operators exploiting works and of users, as established in the case of 6 April 1995, "RTE/ITP versus the Commission of the European Communities' .
The Committee on Legal Affairs regrets that the World Intellectual Property Organization failed to reach agreement on the related rights of performing artists in the audiovisual field.
Mr President, my objective is for us in the EU to speak in plain language as much as possible so that as many people as possible understand what we are saying.
Unfortunately, I am a little afraid that this report is very difficult to read, in spite of the fact that it does not concern a legislative text, but an answer to a communication.
I am pleased that we stress balance in paragraph 15, that is, that there should be a balance between the various interests which are at work in this area.
I hope that the Commission will soon bring forward a proposal, since we need a situation in which we also have a borderless market in this area in our EU.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I should like particularly to thank the rapporteur for continuing to press for the new opportunities of the information society to be treated by EU legislation not just as matters for the internal market and commerce, but as cultural concerns.
Mr Barzanti's report constitutes a decisive contribution to this process and I wish to congratulate him on it.
I would in fact like to recall the vital influence which the European Parliament has exercised on the five directives currently in force in the field of copyright and related rights.
Today's debate concerns, it seems to me, first of all the substance of the new services of the information society.
The communication which the Commission adopted on 20 November 1996 is in keeping with the extension of the Green Paper of 1995 on copyright in the information society.
The communication presents the results of the consultation and defines four priority areas for legislative action in the context of the internal market: the right of communication to the public, the right of reproduction - and several of you, it seems to me, have insisted on this point, - the right of distribution and the protection of technical systems of identification and protections.
Yes, Mr Barzanti, the author has the right to protection and that is the reason why the Commission is preparing a directive.
The second is that we now have, at the community level, the obligation to transpose the new international obligations defined by the two new treaties adopted by the World Intellectual Property Organization last December.
To respond to this need for harmonization the Commission proposes, in accordance with the wishes of the European Parliament to draw up a community directive before the end of the year.
The objective of this instrument is to enable the internal market to work properly for the new services and to create a favourable environment for creativity and innovation in all the Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning.
Mr President, this evening we are discussing additives.
The Commission's proposal is aimed at changing the 1995 guideline concerning other food additives such as colourings and sweeteners, whereby the 35 proposed amendments almost exclusively cover the corresponding Annexes.
Consumers and also the food industry have shown over recent years that the use of additives can be greatly reduced.
The outline guideline of 1989 provided criteria for the authorization of additives.
The Committee on the Environment has proposed several amendments.
The Commission wanted cream, low-fat cream, non-fat cream and sterilized cream, which have 38 additives, to be allowed to have more.
The amendment to the guidelines before us today is the first major revision to the 1995 guidelines on additives, which comprehensively regulates this sector.
In my view four objectives are set by the present amendment to the guideline.
Firstly, the correction of some errors in the basic guideline of 1995; then the consideration of traditions in the new member countries of Austria, Finland and Sweden.
In a previous amendment to the guidelines we passed the designation E407a after two readings in the European Parliament.
Apples and pears, in particular, with a moisture content of more than 12 % are sold to end consumers, and must be treated with a higher dose than products that are merely intended for further processing.
In my Amendment No 30 I propose, therefore, just as does the Economic and Social Committee, a better differentiation, and I am obviously opposed to Amendment No 11 by the rapporteur.
In this context I would like first of all to speak from a personal point of view on Amendment No 6, which has already been mentioned, designed to give the seaweed known as processed euchema, produced in the Philippines, the E number 408 rather than 407a in order better to distinguish it from related products which bear the E number 407.
We know that these related products are processed in Europe and that our producers wish to establish a very clear distinction in order to protect their interests.
But we must also consider that the European Union spends significant amounts of money - ECU 250 million per year - on a programme of aid to the Philippines, a programme for the most part designed to ensure stability through economic development in certain sensitive areas.
Apart from the fact that her position does not seem to be based on very serious scientific data it could have very negative consequences for certain products already authorised for sale in most Member States.
The specific remarks state that in fact this is a collection of forgotten additives, that new Member States have joined with specific traditions, and that some substances have been updated which the Scientific Committee has completed since last time.
The truth can be read in the specific remarks.
And if this had been said straight off, we could quite easily have had a discussion on that basis.
Which brings me back to the start, namely that in fact only experts could read this directive.
This might perhaps be partly justifiable at a time when it was only experts who were involved in the directive's proposals, but now that the directive is part of the democratic process at both national and international level, it is totally unacceptable.
I would also like to say that, apart from two proposed amendments, my group is able to vote in favour of the amendments the committee puts forward, and I would like to emphasize in particular that, even if the marking proposals are a bit involved, we believe it is incredibly important to get them through.
Amendments Nos 32 and 36 concerning antibiotics have to be rejected.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, this proposed directive on additives comes in a context with which we are all familiar, a context of anxiety and therefore caution about the quality of foodstuffs.
Now we modify the classification and call into question the whole economic balance of this already very troubled region.
That is why we are opposed to Amendment No 6.
Mrs Breyer, who has put in an enormous amount of work on this and deserves to be commended for it, is absolutely right to draw our attention to the warnings of the latter - the pressure of the market to bring in new products which cannot be scientifically tested.
I cannot see that products which are not new, not the result of some technological freak but as old as sorbates, for example, should be excluded in the way now suggested from dehydrated apples and pears.
We will be supporting Amendments Nos 31 and 38 to allow that back.
I think they probably need a few additives in order to calm down a bit.
There are three points I want to make.
One echoes his own point with regard to Amendments Nos 31 and 38.
So I hope the Commission is going to be in favour of Amendments Nos 31 and 38.
If not, we want some very good reasons why they are not.
Finally, what is the Commission's view on Amendment No 16 on E405?
The rapporteur wishes to delete the use of E405.
I would like to say first of all that, in November 1994 when the European Parliament adopted Directive 95/2 relating to food additives other than colorants and sweeteners the Commission stated that it was aware of the necessity to propose quickly an amending directive suitable for the new industrial product.
The Commission's original proposal is based on three essential principles, of which I take the liberty of reminding you, for they are utterly fundamental.
Finally, third principle: as the opinion of the Scientific Committee is respected and where technological need can be demonstrated then Community legislation must respect the practice of Member States concerning the use of certain additives in specialities and traditional food preparations.
Bearing in mind these three principles, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 16, 18, 19, 26 and 43.
In effect these do not take sufficient account of the technological needs which exist in certain Member States.
Their adoption would bring about the disappearance of foodstuffs which are perfectly safe from the food trades of certain Member States.
On the other hand the Commission is also unable to accept Amendments Nos 30, 31 and 38, for it insists, in the interest of the consumer, that these products cannot be authorised for final consumption.
Finally, the Commission does not favour the adoption of Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4 and 42 because they introduce labelling requirements which add to the framework directive relating to the labelling of foodstuffs.
The Commission prefers neutral information rather than warnings.
The role of the Commission is to control carefully the existence of technological needs which justify the use of additives in ingredients.
It therefore accepts Amendment No 12 incorporated in Amendment No 10 and Amendments Nos 13, 14, 32 and 36 concerning the use of additives in cases where technological needs has been demonstrated.
However, the Commission was not able to verify the necessity for additives in the uses mentioned in Amendments Nos 15, 17, 39, 40 and 41.
For the moment I cannot therefore accept these amendments.
I am happy however to propose Amendments Nos 20, 21, 23, 25 and 35 because, in addition to the fact that they conform to the opinion recently issued by the Scientific Committee on Food they meet the technological need to produce food for young babies and children in good health and foods for use in particular medical situations.
Between Amendments Nos 22 and 33 the Commission prefers Amendment No 33 because it best reflects the opinion of the Scientific Committee on Food.
For the same reason it prefers Amendment No 34 to Amendment No 24.
All additives intended for use in preparations for young babies and children are very specifically evaluated in this regard by the Scientific Committee on Food.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendment No 27 or the first three substances mentioned in Amendment No 28 which stipulates a maximum level of use of an additive lower than the level regarded as safe by the Committee and not meeting existing technological requirements.
Nevertheless the Commission accepts the five substances mentioned in Amendment No 28.
This proposal does not form part of the Commission's proposal and it is difficult in our opinion for the House to go back on its own decision.
You too have told me that, Mr Commissioner.
I should just like to ask again about Amendment No 42 and to hear the views of the Commission on it.
Mr President, I still was rather unclear whether the name which the Commissioner announced was actually mine, but it could hardly be otherwise at this point.
I am delighted to hear that Amendments Nos 32 and 36 have been accepted but we now have to give this information to people by the vote tomorrow.
I shall reply to the best of my ability, Mr President, first of all, as far as labelling is concerned, I believe that just now I was sufficiently clear in telling you that the Commission is not in favour of adopting Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4 and 42 because they introduce requirements with regard to labelling which refer to Directive 4 on the labelling of foodstuffs.
I do not wish to make here, in the absence of M.
As for Amendment No 32, I have told you that we were in favour of authorisation where it is scientifically proven that this additive is effective against listeria, which are dangerous bacteria.
The other question on Amendment No 42.
We reject this amendment for the reason I have just given you, namely, this point refers to the labelling directive.
I therefore share your point of view, which does not, moreover apply only to the texts on food additives.
I could show you some texts on monetary matters which are no more direct or easy to understand, and the euro affects all citizens.
In a more general sense, I think that all European institutions have to make great efforts in terms of information and that, if we wish to convince and win the support of our fellow citizens we must first achieve a more legible, more comprehensible way of presenting what we decide.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning.
In Europe our capital lies in the best trained young people of all classes, in other words irrespective of their family origins.
The Socrates programme in all its parts is the instrument for many young people to achieve a European capability.
Today I received by coincidence a letter from a young student who said he wants to take part in Erasmus, is taking part and receives DM 100 per month - ECU 50 for his mobility.
Secondly, the Council must give solid financing to its own promises.
I want the central and eastern European states and all associated countries also to be able to participate in the Socrates programme.
Today I have to ask myself, however, if the Council really wants that too.
The Council owes us proof.
In view of the stretched budgetary situation in all Member States we really do not want to be immoderate.
We ask for ECU 50 million for the next budgetary year - and it is in tomorrow's budget and we shall vote for it.
That is still much less than we planned for in 1994, at a time when neither Sweden, Finland nor Austria was a member, and when there were no associated nations.
We appeal to the Council to do everything in its power not miss this investment in the future of our children.
But it is important that we appreciate the importance of the Socrates programme in its attempts to cement the links between the young people of Europe.
If every eligible student were to receive funding, there would only be enough for about ECU 750 per person.
Parliament has consistently shown its commitment to this programme by supporting a ECU 100 million increase in its funding over the next two years of the programme.
Of course we then have the big battle with the Council, which has come up with the paltry sum of ECU 25 million.
It is important that the Council puts its money where its mouth is with this vital programme.
It is important that our children are our future.
The programme is also being extended to the ten associated countries of central and eastern Europe.
Our citizens have an educational and a cultural appetite.
I think that we in Europe have done a lot for training.
I believe it is necessary to do a lot more in this direction in future.
Socrates in particular is in a position, because of its cross-border activities, to motivate our young people to become active in this area and to make themselves available to act as models for other young people.
If Parliament makes ECU 150 million available for the Luxembourg Summit, I think it is up to the Council and the Commission to give some thought to how this money should best be spent.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, we in the Union's decision making body are concerned for that reason about people's indifference or active dislike of the Union.
Aside from current Member States, the Socrates programme has much to offer applicant countries in Central and eastern Europe.
Yet I am forced to say that precisely here, where Europe can make some of its credibility visible, the Council is proving to be a Scrooge.
Reality speaks a different language, and with this financial arrangement we shall not inspire young people for Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Parliament, in particular the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media for the commitment and determination it has shown in reaching a substantial increase in the budgetary funding of the Socrates programme.
More than ever the development of our citizens, the fight against social exclusion, the creation of jobs, depend in fact on our investment in education and development throughout life.
It is thanks to Socrates and other programmes like Leonardo da Vinci, Youth for Europe and, in the future, European Voluntary Service, that we shall move progressively to a Europe of knowledge and that our fellow citizens' expectations in this field will be realized.
But there are many other reasons why Socrates should receive the necessary funding.
First of all because by enabling each year about a hundred million persons to participate actively in European cooperation it contributes to bringing the Union closer to its citizens.
This is a role of absolutely prime importance in particular in this phase of ratifying the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Then, and you were right to draw attention to this aspect during your first reading of the dossier, it constitutes an important point of support for the enlargement of the Union to include countries of central and eastern Europe.
However, the Council has not supported us in our proposal for a significant increase in the initial financial framework of the programme.
The ECU 25 million proposed in the common position of the Council represents only half of what the Commission proposed.
That is what pushes the principle of budgetary austerity to the limits which correspond neither to the views of the Commission nor to those of Parliament in this matter.
Without even talking about a real increase in the funds available the sums proposed by the Council would not even cover the rate of year-on-year inflation.
The Commission, in the opinion which it has just sent to the Parliament and to the Council, has firmly rejected this amount.
Parliament, by proposing an increase of ECU 100 million at the first reading, has shown how much it acknowledges the impact of Socrates both for the citizens and in the perspective of the long term development of the Union.
The Commission, at the presentation of its amended proposal, took into account almost all of the amendments proposed by Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Commission's proposal relating to the amount of increase is modest.
We recognized this by declaring clearly in the explanation of our motives, and I quote: in a more favourable global budgetary context the Commission would not have hesitated to propose a much larger increase, which would have been fully justified by the ratio between costs and advantages of this activity and the necessity of establishing extra funding.
Nevertheless for 1998 the Commission has adopted a preliminary draft budget which proposes an increase limited to 2.4 % of committed credits by comparison with 1997.
Bearing in mind the sums which will go to the structural activities to meet the commitments of the inter-institutional agreement of October 1993, this severity imposes an extremely low increase under the other expenditure headings.
Such a limitation in the increase in the funding of internal policies did not enable us to propose as significant a revision of the Socrates programme as desired and in relation to the importance and success of this programme.
The Commission sees itself as constrained to continue to support a position of austerity.
We shall fight to the last for a significant increase which will enable the programme to meet its goals in the coming years.
First we shall redouble our efforts to convince the Council to soften its position between now and the Education Council on 20 November.
Nevertheless it is most probable, as we all know, that we shall have to put in hand a procedure of conciliation.
I can assure you that the Commission is ready to play fully the role accorded to it by the treaty in the context of this procedure.
It is in fact at this moment when we approach the planning work for the next generation of Community programmes put into operation from the year 2000.
The Commission will at the beginning of November adopt a communication comprising the guidelines which we intend to follow in our work.
This will give us another opportunity to exchange ideas on the future of this most important sector.
The debate is closed.
