As part of that agreement the United Kingdom Government agreed to implement measures to deal with the BSE crisis in the United Kingdom on 1 August.
Support system for producers of certain arable crops The next item is the report (A4-0236/96) by Mr Gillis, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council Regulation derogating from Regulation (EEC) No 1765/92 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops as regards the set-aside requirement for the 1997/98 marketing year (COM(96)0285 - C4-0351/96-96/0162(CNS)).
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I propose that Parliament gives its approval to reduce the amount of land that must be set-aside in the cereals sector to 5 % from the current level of 10 %.
Prices for cereals are at historically high levels on the world market and this is causing some hardship in poorer countries dependent on imports.
I wish to thank the Commission for coming forward with its proposal this year in good time.
In a similar report last year we had requested an early proposal from the Commission and I welcome the fact that Commissioner Fischler was able to respond to our wishes in this regard.
The application of Article 9 of the set-aside Regulation 1765/92 in our country has resulted in an unforeseen and damaging reduction in the cereal area.
I am sure you will agree that, because of the very necessary employment involved and considering the dire shortage in the European Union and, indeed, in the world at large of stocks of grain, this proposed set-aside reduction to 5 % is very desirable.
In 1996 it is likely to be exceeded again.
However, Commissioner, we know that we always have a number of deadlines: for the budget, the price package, the set-aside rate, etc.
As regards the actual subject, the Commission proposes fixing the compulsory set-aside rate at 5 %.
This is of course the minimum rate for farmers, who can always voluntarily set aside up to 30 %.
So, Commissioner, I urge you to reduce this rate to 0 %.
Farmers wishing to set aside 30 % can always do so voluntarily.
Firstly, the situation as regards European grain stocks and the world market: the particularly adverse weather conditions for two years in southern regions have reduced European production; the economic difficulties in Russia and the very substantial increase in Chinese consumption have put pressure on the world market and therefore on world prices; in Europe, you have been forced to introduce export taxes from December 1995; the dramatic fall in beef consumption as a result of the BSE problem has increased demand for poultry meat and pigmeat, whose production consumes large quantities of cereals; and, lastly, the compulsory set-aside rate of 0 % would also result in a small reduction in Community expenditure and would thus make possible a small increase in the compensation to beef producers.
It is also clear that this reduction from 10 % to 5 % - as calculated by the Committee on Budgets - will cost 17 million in the first year, 50 million in 1996/97 and a further 30 million in 1997/98.
That makes it possible for us to approve this resolution and this report because, within the framework of the 30 % voluntary set-aside rate, fodder can still be grown.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the set-aside principle established by Regulation in 1992, was designed as a flexible instrument for regulating the markets.
The Commission proposal submitted to us today, with a set-aside rate of 5 %, comes into the picture because of very low stocks and world prices which are still holding up.
You will understand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that it is in order to show our disapproval of the present set-aside system that, on behalf of my Group of the European Radical Alliance, I have tabled an amendment to 0 %, which would abolish the compulsory set-aside of 5 % of arable land and replace it by a flexible system for producing biomass for fuel and crops intended solely for animal feed, related more closely to environmental constraints.
Before explaining the reasons for this amendment, may I say that this zero rate does not call into question the principle of a voluntary set-aside that may go up to 30 %.
First, world stocks of cereals are very low with only 42 days of world consumption remaining and, in Europe, with Mediterranean countries having experienced two years of exceptional drought, production is very low.
We can understand a principle of voluntary set-aside in order to compensate for agronomic differentials of arable land in Europe, but the principle of compulsory set-aside should be abandoned.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament and the Council have decided on a uniform set-aside rate of 10 % for the 1995/96 crop year.
Now there is some discussion about cutting this rate to 5 %, because world cereal stocks have gone down and the prices of maize and wheat have risen, and I think that we need cereals.
In Germany we now grow almost 5 % of renewable raw materials.
I think it is right to reduce set-aside from 10 % to 5 % in certain areas, and hope this will be extended soon to other producers of crops which are subject to growing world shortages.
I would also like to thank the European Parliament for giving priority to this Commission proposal.
If we went any further, or if we set the quota at zero, the risk of building up stocks too far would become excessive, and in this I refer to Amendments Nos 2 and 5.
As for Amendment No 1, which aims to suspend the implementation of exceptional temporary set-aside, the Commission can accept the idea of refraining temporarily from that kind of temporary set-aside as a means to control production.
As for the request to make the application of Article 9 of Regulation 1765/92 optional in relation to the selection of land, the Commission regrets that it cannot agree.
The debate is closed.
We are of the opinion that Parliament has always tried to give farmers information about the set-aside rate in good time for sowing.
The agricultural conversion rate, being greater by 5 %, provides better protection for the market and the Commission's proposal, which I largely support, is to use a single rate.
Between one dollar to 5 francs and one dollar to 10 francs, we can clearly see how far the penetration of our market by our competitors can go.
The second amendment, for which there was no majority in the Committee on Agriculture, aims to use the agricultural conversion rate as the single conversion rate rather than the customs rate.
Now, instead, we are going to apply agricultural rates to a whole range of imports that can, by and large, be linked to the instruments based on Article 43 of the Treaty, that is, to the common agricultural policy.
The proposed new system provides for application of the monthly customs rate to all imports of agricultural products.
However, there are farm imports which are insignificant for the European Union and therefore the most important ones are concentrated in a restricted group of crops, which poses problems for that group of products.
The real problem lies in the signing of preferential agreements with third countries by the European Union.
Yet the problem does not lie only in conversion rates but also in the signing of preferential agreements.
The genuine problem, from this point of view, is that farming is bearing a considerable share of the cost of the European Union's foreign policy, and this situation is all the more serious in the case of fruit and vegetables, products from the region of Murcia - from where I come; these crops are most affected by the conclusion of preferential agreements and this has knock-on effects, which are worse in the case of Mediterranean farming areas.
I have much sympathy for his arguments and more particularly for those relating to administrative simplification: the coexistence of two conversion rates, in this case the customs rate and the agricultural conversion rate, poses problems for importing companies in its application.
This is the sense of Amendment No 1 which our group has tabled and which I hope will be adopted by Parliament, since it has the advantage of completing the wording of the second recital in the Proposal for a Regulation.
But, Commissioner, why choose to abolish the ACR in favour of the customs rate?
After all, the difference between the rates is 5 %: why, therefore, choose the rate most unfavourable to European Union agriculture?
Amendment No 2 proposed by our group seeks to alter the choice of the rate.
Mr President, here, we are of course all in favour of administrative simplification for all economic operators, but administrative simplification should not be used as an alibi for deliberately weakening the principle of Community preference still further.
In the present system, there are two rates for calculating import duties on agricultural products: the customs rate and the agricultural conversion rate.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I would like to say a word of thanks to everybody for the report on setaside, I think we dealt with it very speedily.
It is hoped that this measure will encourage farmers to continue with this type of lamb production and it should encourage them to continue supplying a valuable market on an all-year-round basis.
Farmers and sheep farmers in Ireland have always made the point that the sheepmeat regime does not create common conditions throughout the European Union.
Therefore, the price in Ireland can often be very different from that in the rest of the European Union.
There are 70, 000 sheepmeat producers in the European Union and 80 % of them live in disadvantaged areas.
In spring 1994 the European Parliament ratified the accession treaty between the European Union and the Finnish Republic.
What you are proposing is not forward-looking.
The cost of this one-off supplementary support will be less than 10 million ECU and is allowed for in the budget for 1996.
Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis.
The debate is closed.
It seems absurd now to spend ECU 9.5 million because sheep farmers suffered a fall in prices in spring 1995.
It therefore seems absurd to us to support this report.
Of the 64, 000 inhabitants of Andorra, only 13, 000 are Andorrans; the others are citizens of EU countries, namely France, Spain and Portugal.
The per capita GDP is $ 15, 000, which means that the people, by their hard work and inventiveness, in a difficult situation in which one might think they could only exist by living on charity, have actually created something out of their predicament, and have developed this country in an amazing way.
It is very important to bear in mind the reality of Andorra in the European framework and its relations with the European Union.
This is an activity also being carried out by other operators in the economic and social fields such as, for example, the Banca Andorrana, which now has a code of conduct similar if not practically identical to that governing the Association of Banks of the European Union.
To sum up, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should support a very interesting process in a State which goes back to the Middle Ages, which until 1993 was a co-principality run by the French President and the Bishop of la Seu d'Urgell and which, in a short time, converted itself into a modern and democratic State, within the geographical framework of the European Union - after all its borders are those of the European Union.
Mr President, the subject of the protocol you submitted to Parliament for its approval is a simple one: to adapt the agreement signed in 1990 with the Principality of Andorra as necessary to take into account the accessions of Austria, Sweden and Finland to the European Union.
The debate is closed.
I want to put it on record that on Wednesday, 332 Members of this House voted against scrapping Friday mornings.
I would like to know where those 332 Members are this morning?
Mr President, I should like to return to what Mr Hallam has just said.
But this is not a point of order and this is not the time to open that debate.
Mr McCartin, you have the floor on a point of order but if you are going to speak on this subject I shall stop you at once.
Mr McCartin, we have discussed this subject until we are blue in the face.
Mr President, I asked to speak before Mr Hallam asked.
Mr President, I am not going to make a political speech, but simply wanted to say, since you will shortly be announcing the end of the present sitting, before the summer holidays, that on behalf of the European Commission I wish you personally, Mr President, and all the Members here today as well as those who have been here all week, happy holidays, and may you all have a good rest and recover your strength.
