Resumption of the session I hereby declare resumed the session of the European Parliament which was adjourned on 17 January 1997.
Thank you, Mrs Crawley.
There is a fundamental question here of whether our work is recognized properly.
Thank you very much, Mr Collins.
You are a punctilious lawyer and you are right to say that if one takes the word 'rule' in its strictest sense, there are not hundreds.
Thank you very much, Mr Nassauer.
I would remind you that this report requires a qualified majority.-the seven motions for resolutions on the Commission's statement on the outcome of the Fisheries Council.
This is a regulation that should have expired on 31 December and on the assumption that the Commission was preparing a new proposal and on the assumption that it spends about six months preparing it, it evidently believes that Parliament is roughly seven or eight times more efficient than the Commission because it wanted us to do in three weeks, what took the Commission six months.
Thank you very much, Mr Collins.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of flexibility, which we discussed for many months in the reflection group, was on the Intergovernmental Conference agenda during the Irish Presidency, on the agenda for the meeting of officials of 13 January, held in Amsterdam under the current Dutch Presidency, and also at the last minister-level meeting of the IGC, held on 20 January.
So it would amount to making closer cooperation possible to achieve the objectives of the treaty more rapidly.
The Commission maintains the position it took in its statement of 28 February 1996.
Flexibility should be possible if it is compatible with achieving the objectives of the treaty, if it respects the single institutional framework, if it does not undermine the acquis communautaire and, in particular, the four basic freedoms, the internal market, the common policies and the flanking policies, and if it is open to every Member State, so that each can join enhanced cooperation at any time.
A positive list might encourage differences and damage efforts to find common solutions.
A negative list could generate an exclusion effect where that might be not be justified.
The steps are as follows: a Commission initiative, at the request of Member States; participation by the European Parliament; decision by qualified majority, in principle.
The Commission emphasizes the need to maintain the unity of the institutions even under enhanced cooperation, in the sense that the Commission, the Parliament and the Court of Justice do not represent the Member States but are supranational authorities, so to speak.
As the President of this Parliament has said, it should be the exception to the rule, the means that allows the Union to make progress in certain cases and under strict conditions, even if some States cannot join in this common action or be a part of it immediately.
We should bear in mind that common decisions adopted by qualified majority do in a sense permit all the flexibility needed to take account of different situations in Member States.
And there is no doubt that maintaining unanimity in certain areas may lead to excessive use of enhanced cooperation, hence the need to lay down strict rules for introducing it.
Assuming that not all the Member States enter monetary union initially, the question is whether a need for enhanced cooperation would exist between the States that are in.
Some regard the existing provisions as sufficient, because the different policies in each Member State would be adapted, always respecting the acquis communautaire .
Without going into the substance of the debate, the Commission's view is that, in these circumstances, the basic principles it is proposing for enhanced cooperation should in any case be respected.
Finally, I want to stress that generalized flexibility is certainly not the panacea for all the Union's difficulties.
In Dublin the European Council stated that decisions in this area, or indeed lack of decision, will have immense significance for the future of the Union.
So I want to be very clear: flexibility cannot be the only key to our future.
The fundamental point is for Member States to agree on the objectives of the Union.
If flexibility is not limited to a precise area and specific decisions but extended to the very objectives of the Union, sooner or later it will lead to fragmentation of the Union.
And this risk will be all the greater if the social protocol technique is applied to other areas, giving one or more Member States an opt-out from common action on important issues for European integration.
I will now touch briefly on flexibility in the other two pillars and specifically on common foreign and security policy.
Technically, flexibility seems simpler in common foreign and security policy and in fact the CFSP basically calls not for regulations which may create permanent differences, but for specific actions and decisions.
But the crucial question is how long differentiation within acts of foreign policy can continue, where a certain number of States do not participate, without provoking a serious crisis in the Union.
In my opinion it is essential that there should be a high degree of consensus on the common objectives of common foreign and security policy.
Indeed, at yesterday's meeting of Member States' government representatives we specifically examined the question of the third pillar, and that will continue on 10 and 11 February.
In our opinion, flexibility is not and should not be the crucial issue at the IGC.
Protocols already exist, Mr De Giovanni, and it has been impossible to prevent them occurring even in what is probably their most negative form, as in the typical example of the social protocol.
It cannot be an option in all circumstances but must be governed by a set of principles, such as compatibility with the objectives of the Union, respect for the single institutional framework and, of course, preserving the single market and its flanking policies and common policies.
Mr President, Commissioner, the success or failure of the Intergovernmental Conference will depend, largely, upon the progress made in strengthening integration, taking account of the currently negative positions of certain States, positions which look very much like veto.
The Commission's position seems to me restrictive, and with good reason, since you are setting a very tight framework within which this strengthened integration would have to operate, but this position also seems defensive, as far as its right of initiative in the matter is concerned, which is not such a good thing.
Mrs Spaak, I do not know how subtle the initiative is but, yes, I can say that the subject has been debated in the Commission.
Secondly, I would say that initiative also lies with the Commission in the sense that it can oppose an initiative taken by a very large number of Member States.
Suppose 13 Member States take an initiative and present it to the Commission.
But we offer three options: simple majority of Member States; two-thirds majority - which would be 10 at present; and simple majority associated with a population criterion.
In any case, I can tell you that the Commission's general criterion involves a large number of States.
We have not decided exactly how many, or whether simple majority or qualified majority should apply.
But we have to avoid a proliferation of options and offers making the number of States which can propose enhanced cooperation very small.
And our current idea is that the Commission should indicate, case by case, which costs should be borne by the Community budget and which should be borne by the participating States.
This issue was raised the other day in the Committee on Institutional Affairs and we need to go on thinking about it, but, in principle, the Commission's position is that we should distinguish between administrative and operational costs.
In our opinion the position as regards Parliament is very clear.
So in our view, the principle governing the participation of Parliament will depend on the subject matter.
If it is in the area of simple consultation, Parliament's participation will be that of simple consultation.
In any case, there is no doubt that Parliament should participate in the process.
On the other hand, I have more doubts about Parliament's initiative by invoking article 138 b.
But I think that initiative as such should lie with the Member States and Parliament, not the Commission.
Mr Dell'Alba, at this moment, speaking here in the solemnity of a sitting of Parliament, I am committing the Commission.
But we will certainly go on thinking about this issue in the light of representations from governments and the position of the European Parliament.
Secondly, flexibility is not appropriate for the existing core policies of the Community, in particular the single market and the flanking policies of the environment, social policy and consumer policy.
There are issues we are still discussing in the Commission.
We were discussing this issue before the statement of 28 February, and since then we have maintained this position unequivocally.
But some ideas are very clear: first, enhanced cooperation must be compatible with the objectives of the Union and with the acquis communautaire ; secondly, and exactly as you just said, it must clearly respect the single institutional framework; it must preserve the internal market; it must preserve its flanking policies, the common policies; it must be constantly open to all the non-participants whose rights must be fully guaranteed; it must be - and if I did not mention this before, I want to do so now - a last resort.
However, do you really think that the Treaty of Maastricht itself has already instituted, in the first pillar, the notion of strengthened cooperation in its creation of a single currency and its decision that only certain States may have access to it?
You are referring to a specific situation which seems to be provided for in the treaty.
But we have gone further as regards the second and third pillars, where the possibility of enhanced cooperation occurring seems entirely reasonable.
The problem is that there must be a general clause for the first pillar.
My criteria for applying enhanced cooperation in the first pillar are very restrictive.
My second question is this: how in this context are you going to guarantee Parliament's right of scrutiny?
On the exercise of parliamentary control, I want to say something I have not said before, which is that during the debate on the participation of the institutions in enhanced cooperation, the Commission's criterion has been that, in the case of the Council, it is representatives of the States that have agreed on this enhanced cooperation who will be present.
But we think Parliament as a whole should participate in enhanced cooperation, because we regard it as indivisible.
And another question too: what do you actually expect the effects on the legal structure to be if, in a number of areas of communitization, individual States can move forward and the European Parliament and the institutions in general can no longer keep pace, so that the controlling function which we must exercise becomes impossible?
That is clearly established and institutionalized in the treaty as regards economic and monetary union.
But one thing has been clearly stated in the Intergovernmental Conference, and it is that enhanced cooperation is going to happen.
So it cannot be just any type of enhanced cooperation.
I have said that the single institutional framework and all the principles that derive from it must be respected, and that a set of rules, those of the internal market for example, must be maintained.
President, Commissioner, my first question concerns whether or not there is a risk that the cooperation between those countries wishing to move on quickly and those which feel that we are moving forward too fast will break down, and that a move to a more flexible form of working, in which the right of veto is effectively removed, will damage the close cooperation which we currently enjoy.
If the issue of flexibility is not resolved inside the treaty, there is no doubt that flexibility will exist outside the treaty.
And the reality at this very moment is that various forms of flexibility are occurring in the area of the second pillar and, of course, in the area of the third pillar.
We must try to bring Schengen inside the treaty and that is why we now need to adopt a set of rules to guarantee all the fundamental principles I referred to earlier.
Mr President, Commissioner Oreja has presented flexibility to us from one particular angle, solely as a means of moving still further towards integration.
This is one possibility, of course, but flexibility is a multiform concept which involves many other facets.
My question is as follows: how, according to Commissioner Oreja, could flexibility work in relation to expansion towards the East, and in particular, would we not avoid many problems if we did not try, in this particular case, to impose all of the policies of the European Union at the same time, universally, upon all of the new candidate countries?
Transitional periods for adjusting to Community policy already exist in the treaty and in practice.
To take the example of the country I know best, Spain was given 17 years to adjust to the fisheries policy, and this was later reduced as a result of negotiations which took place once Spain had joined the Communities.
The same can be said of the free movement of capital.
So enhanced cooperation should be understood as an option for the future.
Mr President, does improving the effectiveness of cooperation and increasing flexibility mean that there is a wish to give more power to the large Member States, as appears from the statements of some Commissioners?
And I would almost say that what happens at the European Council in Amsterdam will depend on how far the qualified majority principle is extended.
I noticed that in his opening contribution, the Commissioner expressed his anxiety to ensure that he should not give a list of areas of flexibility for the first pillar although he did single out for particular reference economic and monetary union.
This enhanced cooperation would in any case have to respect the fundamental principles and rules I mentioned earlier.
Thank you very much, Mr Oreja.
What we have to do is make this European Year a year of active integration and reciprocal adjustment.
To start with, perhaps the most important reason of all why the Union, the Council, Commission and everyone involved should actively fight against racism, xenophobia and antisemitism is that these are the very things which prompted the birth of the Community.
The tragic events of the first half of this century require us, even today, to debate this very important and sometimes very disturbing issue not only here but in other forums of the European Union too.
The interest and involvement of the Parliament has, of course, been very crucial and it is largely because of the constant attention that the Parliament has paid to this issue over the years that the decision was taken to have 1997 named as the European Year Against Racism.
I would first of all like to talk about the IGC and the possible insertion of a provision which prohibits discrimination into the Treaty on European Union.
The Commission has given its opinion on this issue and has pressed for such a provision to be inserted.
You can be assured that we will make our point of view very strongly known to the Dutch presidency, who now have the difficult task of finalizing the IGC negotiations in a satisfactory manner.
As we have heard, tomorrow is the start of the European Year Against Racism.
I know that many of the Members of Parliament will be present at the meeting and will make a very significant contribution to the occasion.
Most of the responsibility to tackle racism lies with the Member States but this year is an exercise in partnership and we will further establish our relations with key partners, such as the non-governmental organizations.
I have asked for a specific report on this subject which will be the basis of one of the workshops at the opening conference during the week.
Turning now to the other aspects of your resolution, I can say that there will be a round table on a variety of issues and there will certainly be a media campaign.
We will arrange for a video to be produced and made available to a range of television stations and at the opening conference there will be two exhibitions: one on the positive contribution ethnic minorities have made and are making to British society and one about the portrayal of ethnic minorities in the media and advertising.
I hope that Parliament will be able to give its opinion rapidly but, as you all know, there is still one Member State which queries the legal base of this important proposal.
The campaign forms part of our shared efforts to build a true citizens' Europe: Member States, NGOs and the other key actors and, of course, the Commission are very enthusiastic and working hard to make this Year a real success and to ensure that it will also have significant effects, not just this year, but in the years to come.
Mr President, measures against intolerance are enjoying a high profile.
Today we are holding our annual debate here on the fight against racism and xenophobia, whilst tomorrow in The Hague the European Year Against Racism will be officially inaugurated.
It is heartening to see initiatives being taken on many fronts in Europe against intolerance and racism.
Internet groups being alert to the spread of racist material through the new media.
Incomprehensible because John Major was in favour of an Observatory both at the Dublin summit and the one in Florence.
Incomprehensible too because in 1986 - and I was there - the British Government signed the solemn declaration which the Council, Commission and European Parliament all gave to combat racism at both national and European levels.
Peace, democracy, the combating of fascism and racism, never again another Auschwitz, these were the roots of European unification, as you said.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on racism and xenophobia is indubitably an absolutely necessary one.
The fourth point is the common monitoring of the external frontiers, and the fifth is measures for combating organized crime because in that area the blame is constantly being put on the wrong people.
This is an aspect that should receive careful consideration from this Parliament and from all those whose aim is to defend liberty and democracy in Europe and throughout the world.
Mr President, first I want to express my appreciation of the fine resolution in this annual debate on racism and xenophobia.
But I want to make this speech positive because I think the declaration of 1997 as European Year against Racism and Xenophobia is a step forward - a small one, but a step forward.
In my group we believe the success of this initiative should be accompanied by an Intergovernmental Conference decision to make asylum policies and instruments for the prevention of racism and xenophobia Community issues, with the aim of adopting an anti-discrimination directive as soon as possible, jointly drafted by the Council, the Commission and, of course, the European Parliament.
Much more serious, though, in my view are the political questions.
That is our problem, not the problem of the victims!
Mr President, it is difficult to be against the report which is being presented to us today, because it does indeed flow along with the best sentiments in the world.
This is the creation of the European monitoring centre.
Previous ones, monitoring centres that is - I am thinking in particular of our monitoring centre on drug abuse, located in Lisbon - have not up to now brought about substantial results nor really perceptible advances in the domains to which they relate.
Any defence of national identity could therefore be prohibited.
Similarly, all critical expression on immigration becomes difficult, likely even to result in an appearance in court.
Similarly, defence of the natural principle of national or community preference can also find itself being pursued, condemned, in the name of political correctness, in the name of the thought police.
Well anyway, a debate has begun in a major country on this subject.
This situation cannot continue.
This was not a deputy from the National Front, the Vlaams blok or another sister grouping either, it was Klaus Zwickel, chairman of the big trade union IG-Mettall.
They show that the problem of immigration and unemployment is out in the open today, that there is a link between the two, and I think that the Commission, instead of following the twaddle of anti-racism, should concern itself with the extension and opening up of our legislation to national and community preference.
Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue with the debate, I wish to inform you that I have received a motion for a resolution tabled under paragraph 5 of article 40 of the Rules of Procedure.
There is no natural principle of national preference.
Children must learn at a very early age to treat other cultures and traditions with tolerance.
Parental education, too, seems to me a very important subject here, because the responsibility should be shared by the whole family.
In conclusion, though, I should like to point out that, regrettably, there are still no application forms for project proposals for the European Year, and I have already received many inquiries from German citizens complaining about this.
Mr President, this motion rightly points out that one of the main raisons d'être of the Union is to prevent racism and xenophobia.
Experience from my own Member State shows that the attitude of Governments is crucial.
We need also to establish the European Observatory for Racism and Xenophobia within the democratic framework of the Treaty of Rome.
If other Governments in the Council of Ministers bow to the demands of an increasingly authoritarian and antiEuropean British Government, they will be offering Europe's citizens a second-rate deal.
That is why the European Year Against Racism, which opens tomorrow in The Hague, seems more necessary than ever.
How can we not denounce the hypocrisy and duplicity of governments who participate in the very organisation of this European Year Against Racism, while they make decisions which continue to fuel racism.
Examples of this, sadly, are many: Council declarations on community preference regarding employment, statements by German political leaders making direct links between immigration and unemployment, not forgetting, of course, the French government's scandalous draft legislation on immigration which aggravates the Pasqua laws and looks to encourage a climate of suspicion towards foreigners.
But what is also required is an overall policy which is vigorous and coherent, in particular in areas relating to everyday life.
We must equip ourselves with new and more effective arms for combatting ordinary everyday racism, favouring three axes: the legal system, education and the media.
Let us live out in our daily lives the values of solidarity and brotherhood, adopting for ourselves the beautiful words of the writer Carlos Fuentes, which I quote: ' Our culture is not made from isolation but from communication, confrontation and contagion.
A culture which wants to be pure and which closes its borders to other cultures is a culture destined to perish.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, racism is first and foremost a state of mind, one which can become a way of life.
And it is therefore an important contribution to the efforts being made by all those - and there are a great many of them - who have already become actively involved in this battle.
Their reports propose the creation of legal instruments, namely an 'anti-discrimination' directive and follow up the decision by the Council to create a European Observatory for which there is already a draft regulation.
There is plenty of paternalism and humiliating tolerance but not enough real solidarity and respect for human rights in our procedures of legalising the presence of residents and workers, as has been noted in certain Member States of the European Union including my own.
Perhaps Minister Dijkstal can say something on the subject presently.
I fervently hope that I am wrong and that it will be possible tomorrow, during the big anti-racism conference organized by the Dutch presidency, for Minister Dijkstal to announce formally the creation of the Observatory.
I hope the presidency will support our proposal for a broad media campaign involving popular sporting heroes such as Ruud Gullit.
It will be our task, as members of the European Parliament, to play an active part in such events in our own countries.
In this introduction to this motion for a resolution, the European Parliament refers to another resolution of 9 May 1996, and expressly mentions the recommendations put forward there.
That resolution contains a Recital H, whose content is a stain on the honour of the European Parliament.
That Austrian political party is the second largest Austrian group in this House and received 27 % of the votes cast in last year's European Parliament elections.
As is constantly demonstrated by our voting patterns and other activities in the European Parliament, we are convinced opponents of any form of racism, xenophobia or antisemitism, and strenuously condemn these deviant forms of human behaviour!
The scapegoat strategy, which worked so well in the 1930s, is back in business.
And the extreme right has been involved in fuelling racism for a very long time and in a very methodical way.
Rebellion, violent aggression, and for some, a tendency to reject wholesale in the same way the author of these suggestions and all those like him.
So, Mr President, of course, let us combat racism with all our might, but lucidly, realistically, giving ourselves the means fully to do so and identifying those responsible.
Mr President, racism is one of the most destructive phenomena in society.
Racism, xenophobia and intolerance have increased to a worrying extent throughout Europe.
However, I should also like to remind you that in every Member State of the EU there are other ethnic minorities who are daily subjected to discrimination and racism.
In many countries the Roma are still without adequate rights and I should like to remind you here that at present the very existence of Roma or gypsies as a minority is not even recognized in all countries.
Even here, honourable Members regularly make distinctions between Union citizens and those who live here but do not really belong, because they do not hold a passport issued by one of the Member States.
So we must do everything we can to eliminate discrimination between Union citizens and those from other countries who in many cases have been living among us for a very long time - there are many in Germany who have been living there for more than 30 years - because this discrimination often results in a climate of xenophobia.
Mr President, I hope that the European Year Against Racism will also be a year of tangible achievement, in particular at the Intergovernmental Conference, that the principle of non-discrimination as well as the principle of combatting racism, anti-semitism and xenophobia will be able to be written into the treaties.
We need legal instruments to fight racism.
For me, fighting racism also means creating a political Europe and democracy at European level.
I am concerned to note that six countries, and in particular Belgium, have still not transposed into their own legislation the directive on the rights of European citizens in local and municipal elections.
I am concerned, but I hope I am also mistaken.
I hope that it will not challenge this right to vote, and beyond that, that we will be brave enough to widen this suffrage for European citizens to include citizens registered in our area for at least five years.
The fight against racism also entails the integration of all into our political system, into democracy.
And finally, I would like to ask our Austrian colleague if he takes us all for morons.
Finally I would like to say I am dismayed at the attitude of the British Government in blocking the move towards the setting up of the anti-racist monitoring centre.
My professional activity in medicine has been devoted in its entirety, throughout thirty years, to the saving of human lives, lives of men and women in all conditions, of all races, of all nationalities, without obtaining the slightest financial benefit from it, unlike some of my colleagues who have made their fortunes in caring for humans and of whom the representative given the most media coverage sits on our benches.
The action I have carried out, and which I still take time to pursue today, for the benefit of the deprived, whatever their racial origin, gives me more right than any to declare that I am shocked by the resolution which is the subject of our discussion and which considers that defence of the choice of national preference should be condemned, according to the antiquated methods of the supreme Soviet, in the name of racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism.
This is not, in my view, the right way to honour either this Parliament or the thousands of people who have given their lives for ideals which - like the anti-fascist struggle against racism and xenophobia - are fully consistent with that liberal, democratic, reformist and European tradition which I, as a Member of the European and Italian Parliaments elected on the Lega lists, have the honour to support.
Dr Konrad, you will be able to speak at the end of the debate, after the representatives of the Council and the Commission.
You can fight racism, antisemitism and discrimination through the law, the police and the judiciary, but you can also try to fight it using the substance of your policy, and a policy of integration is perhaps the most effective way of tackling this kind of phenomenon.
Concerning the Observatory, I must say that there is solid support for this in Parliament too.
For the moment I will repeat what I said earlier, namely that I think the United Kingdom too will undoubtedly be convinced of the need for this Observatory and will cooperate to find a satisfactory solution.
It is something which all of us should do as politicians, you as elected parliamentarians and we as what one might term the executive, but all of us should do it as individual citizens of the European Union.
Only if we set an example can we really insist that other citizens in Europe do likewise.
That is what is needed in this important area of measures against racism and discrimination.
Yes, we do, and we need them at both levels; at national level, in so far as legislation is concerned, and we need a clause enshrined in the Treaty; an antidiscrimination clause that would give us the opportunity to use the necessary Community instruments to deal with the threat posed by racism.
The workshops will include: workshops to examine the relationship between race and employment and a workshop on the legal framework to combat racism.
In particular there will be projects which raise awareness of existing laws against discrimination and encourage people to make full use of the existing laws and to pinpoint the lacunae in the existing national legislation and try to do something about them.
I did not attack the German minister, nor the German Chancellor, I pointed out that they had made remarks about the cost of immigration, about the link between immigration and unemployment.
I am simply pointing out that these remarks can be made in public debate in the Federal Republic of Germany, and I am delighted, because they must have freedom of opinion, freedom of expression there.
It is freedom of expression that I am defending.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, allow me to express our disappointment.
What is true for crime in general is all the more true for the extreme and specific type which is terrorism.
We deem terrorist all acts committed by individuals or groups which resort to violence or which threaten violence against a nation, its institutions, its population and which are motivated by separatist objectives, extreme ideological conceptions or religious fanaticism, or even by irrational and incomprehensible motives and which aim to subject the authorities of individuals or groups to a climate of terror.
Since Europe is founded upon legal States which allow every citizen, or group of citizens, to use its democratic structures to be heard and to put its ideas into practice, no ideology, nor any motive, can provide the slightest justification for terrorist actions.
It is clear from our point of view, therefore, that terrorism is a criminal act which should be treated as such.
Regarding cooperation of police and legal systems, we would like to see Europol up and running at last, because, there too, after each session of the Council, we hear fine words, saying: we need Europol.
We would also like to step up police cooperation in combatting terrorism, to enable the exchange of information even if there is no specific link with criminal proceedings, to promote direct exchanges of opinions and experiences between the officers of the different Member States responsible for combatting terrorism, to see the Convention on extradition, signed on 27 September 1996, ratified and to see the necessary decisions made and measures taken so that nationals of one Member State accused of terrorist crimes or collaboration with armed groups cannot obtain political asylum or refugee status in another Member State.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is standard practice in this House to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports.
There are three things we must do, a point which Mrs Reding made very clearly.
If we can do that, we ourselves will acquire the legitimate right consistently to reject any other way of resolving conflicts and so, logically, we shall also acquire the right to say, in the terrorism debate: any person who resorts to individual terror or group terror, or resorts to terror tactics against individual people or individual groups, cannot hope to find any sympathy within the democratic legal structure, whether in the Member States of our Union that are governed by the rule of law, or in the Union itself.
The reason why it is so important to say this is because terrorist organizations in the European Union have, in the past, repeatedly been able to create a spurious political legitimacy for their actions.
I have no doubt that the resolution before us will receive the support of the house by an overwhelming majority, and I now have the honour to announce, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, our group's commitment to the resolution as well as to the various amendments, especially Nos 2, 4, 5, 6 and 11.
And Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today this banner of fundamental rights, this European flag, is a blue standard symbolizing the bond which extends across the European Union, from Las Palmas to Malmo and from Rhodes to Dublin.
As the rapporteur says, acts of terrorism violate numerous fundamental rights of the individual, particularly the right to life, the right to physical integrity and the right to personal freedom.
In this regard, I seek here your support for our Amendment No 7 which calls on governments and the forces of law and order to show a common understanding and respect for human rights and to remain within the rule of law in the common fight against terrorism.
Mr President, it is indeed most important that we as the European Parliament, as members elected directly by the voters, should be discussing terrorism here.
The right to freedom of expression in this context must be upheld.
Terrorist acts inside the European Union cannot be justified in any way because they appeal to ideologies or religious, cultural or national identities.
Terrorist acts violate many fundamental rights, in particular the right to life, physical integrity and individual freedom, and in many cases they destabilize peace and economic and social development in local and regional communities, and undermine their democratic institutions.
So our group firmly supports the amendment calling on the Council to adopt the necessary measures to prevent any national of a Member State accused of terrorism or collaboration with an armed group obtaining refugee status in another Member State.
Asylum policy can only apply to nationals of third countries who do not live in a democracy.
In my country, Spain, those victims of terrorism may be decent members of the national or regional armed forces or security forces, representatives of democratic institutions, or citizens indiscriminately murdered en masse in public places.
We remember with sadness the 1, 000 or so fatal victims of terrorism in Spain, including Enrique Casas, Gregorio Ordóñez, Fernando Múgica and Francismo Tomás y Valiente, who were active in the democratic institutions, and the Captain General of Madrid, Quintana Lacaci, who defended Spanish democracy so firmly against the attempted coup d'état of 1981.
We also remember the many people who have been mutilated, like Irene Villa, and especially those currently held captive and subjected to cruel physical torture, José Antonio Ortega Lara and Cosme Delclaux.
I will end there, Mr President, but in remembering them, I want to call for real, and effective moral and material aid under the law, for them and their families, and we also call on Parliament and the European institutions to make a greater and better joint effort to uphold human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
Thank heavens and the action of our parents that, today, within the European Union, we have a constitutional state and the democratic rule of law governing our institutions.
The political violence which attempts to overthrow these institutions actually finds no justification and it must be fought on all sides without weakness.
Terrorism in Europe is not a foreign secretion.
The third item which it seems to me important to highlight is the fact of qualifying, or having qualified as a criminal offence the apologia of terrorism.
This is a necessary step in the breaking up not only of terrorism, but of the political demagoguery which often surrounds it.
Finally, an appeal should be made to the courage of citizens to combat terrorism and to participate actively in the reinsertion into society and a professional and political life of those who, at one time, might have succumbed to the temptation of terrorism.
It has not covered itself with great glory because some countries have not been prepared to face up to their responsibilities.
I have had personal experience in Northern Ireland of terrorism; it is something I would never wish on any part of the human race.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the end of the Cold War we have seen a resurgence of terrorism, associated in particular with the intensification of regional, religious and ethnic conflict.
I am Catalan, as Bernard Pradier said, and I live in a land which struggled for its own identity for years and years, but I have to say I never understood violence in politics and, of course, we have never practised it.
Our citizens would not understand why there could not be more active cooperation in a Union policy constructed by democratic countries or why every possible effort might not be made to fight terrorism actively and firmly.
We hoped against hope that this report would not have to be written but unfortunately there are still people in the European Union today who do not respect coexistence, human rights and democratic principles.
Previous speakers have already covered many of the points in the report, like terrorism, prevention, police and court cooperation, criminal prosecution, the need for swift ratification of the Europol Convention and, above all, regarding any terrorist act as a criminal act to be prosecuted under the criminal law.
Any act or demonstration of that kind increases confusion and uncertainty in the fight against terrorism, and any encouragement of the phenomenon should not only be banned, but should also be prosecuted under the criminal law.
There can be no justification for violence and any such argument loses its force when reason acknowledges death and suffering.
It is precisely the victims of terrorism and their relatives who suffer and that is why I want to highlight the crucial need to establish a European Union solidarity fund for victims of terrorism.
In a Europe where we talk about European citizenship, democracy, freedom and solidarity, we must show solidarity with citizens affected by a social ulcer like terrorism, with victims of terror, intolerance and oppression.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to fight terrorism properly, it is essential that Member States bring criminal prosecutions not only against the actual perpetrators of terrorist acts, but also against any person, group or structure which has participated in their organization, preparation or execution.
Without adequate infrastructure, many terrorist acts might not come about and, that is why we need to extend criminal responsibility to those who collaborate with terror.
Because it represents the will of all the citizens of the European Union, this Parliament's stand against terrorism is of vital importance amongst the many others.
The proposal that we should advise the press on how to report terrorist actions cannot, in my view, be accepted.
Mr President, my dear colleagues, this report is, quite obviously, full of good intentions and also of good sense measures which must necessarily win unanimous support.
Terrorism does not seed itself on any social soil any more than violence in general, and that subject has not been broached.
Many anthropologists and sociologists, such as Arnold Gehlen, have shown that man needs to be surrounded by strong traditions and institutions.
That is why uprooting, whether national or social, is therefore an essential cause of violence, but also of terrorism.
Another tabou, of course: nobody will admit that the fight against terrorism is necessarily a form of war itself and we cannot make war without reintroducing capital punishment.
Firstly, this is because a Parliament which has received its mandate through the democratic process naturally finds it unacceptable that anyone should use violence as a means of promoting their aims in a democratic society.
This is why the fight against organised crime in all its forms is one of the Union's most important joint tasks.
Thirdly, we should all make a contribution to preventing and combating terrorism worldwide.
In that framework it is our prime obligation to defend the European Union against terrorist acts.
It will always be best to try and find political solutions to deal with any conflicts, however serious they are, since radicalizing positions always leads to violence.
In this respect, the objective proposals made in this report should be approved by the European Parliament.
We can all think of instances in our own lifetimes in certain countries where certain people have been regarded in one light by one group and in another light by another group.
But we have to draw a distinction - as the report does - between what might have been the case fifty years ago when people were fighting against the horrors of Nazism, for example, or resisting brutal and oppressive regimes, and the use of terrorist activities in open and democratic societies.
I also want to emphasize the need in whatever we do to ensure that we do not fall into the error of allowing the terrorists to achieve their objectives.
If we introduce security measures of such oppressiveness that normal democratic life is undermined, we are playing into the hands of the terrorists and enabling them to achieve their objectives.
It is a difficult balance to keep but I think this report has got it generally right.
Terrorism is a wide-ranging threat to the security of the civil population, which often increases the sense of insecurity in Europe much more than traditional narrower, mostly military security problems.
All the citizens of the European Union, wherever they live, enjoy freedoms today that were denied to citizens in many Member States in the past.
In paragraph 9 attention is drawn to the fact that economic, social and cultural exclusion can be a contributing factor to violence.
In his history of the Northern Ireland problems, an Irish historian, Tim Pat Coogan, supports this thesis, pointing out that most of the young people who have sustained the campaign of violence over the last twenty-five years have come from a small number of ghettos where people are poor and deprived, and the same is true of the violence on the Loyalist side.
Whatever the origin of the violence, the basic right of the citizens of this Union is to be protected from it and it is the duty of this Parliament to ensure that people who commit criminal acts, in particular against the person, will not find refuge in any Member State of this European Union.
There is no justification for terrorism and violence perpetrated by organized groups to obtain political, social or other objectives.
First, we must create a common police and judicial area where, as stated in the resolution, all the relevant authorities of Member States cooperate, including the police forces responsible, either for the whole country or part of it, for instance the Basque police force itself, the Ertzaintza, which has jurisdiction there.
And second, legislation must be approximated so that the perpetrators of violent acts cannot find protection and shelter in other Member States.
To that we add scrupulous respect for human rights in the struggle against violent men and violent acts, and in this way we legitimize our democratic systems.
As the text of the resolution emphasizes, police action is not enough to resolve deep-seated conflicts in our society.
Democratic dialogue is necessary, and that is why, in this resolution, the European Parliament calls on the States of the European Union to promote it as a contribution to resolving political conflicts.
Police action is needed, but in turn, we are creating conditions for inclusive dialogue so that all individuals and groups are clearly aware that their political objectives can be put into practice in a framework of democracy, on one condition: that they have the support of the people, through a democratic majority.
It is time we recognized that we can only defend life and liberty by pooling all our weapons and one of them is implementing the Europol Convention which will give us the formula to achieve an objective so vital in this day and age.
In Spain two citizens are being held captive at this very moment by the terrorist group ETA.
One of them is a civil servant, Mr Ortega Lara, and his wife came to the European Parliament in November to call for the solidarity and support of the President of Parliament and all its Members, which she obtained.
It is time to go further than words and recognize that the Europe of the future must be built on respect for the most fundamental rights, like the right to life and the right to freedom.
I am referring to the TREVI agreement for example, which in many respects was the forerunner of current police cooperation within the Union.
The fight against terrorism is perhaps one of the best examples of how important and successful close international cooperation can be in the fight against organised crime.
Naturally, the positive political developments which have taken place in recent years in the Middle East, the former Soviet Union and in Eastern and Central Europe have also played a large part in this.
We must also tackle the fundamental causes of terrorism.
It is true that the number of international terrorist acts has decreased during the last decade but the number of victims has tended to increase.
The Irish Presidency urged all Member States to ratify the Convention during 1997.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, this annual debate on the progress of the European Union in 1995 is pursuant to article D of the Treaty of Maastricht.
Furthermore the treaty requirement that the European Council present an annual report on the progress of the Union clearly indicates an obligation of dialogue between the European Council and Parliament.
For this dialogue to be effective in the future, the European Council must undertake to complete its annual report at the December summit and the European Parliament must show the political flexibility and awareness to organize a major general debate in its February or March part-session every year.
In yet another year the European Council has to be reminded here and now that its functions are clearly different from those of the Council of the European Union and its annual report cannot therefore be a mere catalogue of the year's activities but should assess the political action taken and set out the political objectives and key ideas to be communicated to the public.
At this crucial time of consolidation of the European Union it is very important for clear, precise and definite messages to reach the citizens about the great political objectives of the Union.
As in any enterprise, the stability of a clearly defined horizon is essential.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the written report by the Council is laid down in the EU Treaty.
First, the enlargement to 15 Member States.
Secondly, the activities of the Reflection Group, chaired by Carlos Westendorp, with two members of the European Parliament.
This gave a clear signal that the reconstruction in question can no longer be achieved without the participation of the peoples of the European Union and their democratically elected representatives.
That is why the results of the Intergovernmental Conference must also meet the requirements of the European Parliament.
Thirdly, the resolute commitment of the European Council in Madrid that monetary union should become a reality.
In the light of this agenda, the Amsterdam summit in mid-June must bring fundamental reforms for the European Union.
However, 1995 has also left a legacy of problems that are still completely unresolved.
Mr President, the report on the progress of the Union in 1995 which we are examining today analyses European policy according to a rather distorted reading detectable right from the first preamble.
The Union should rest upon both democratic legitimacy, expressed in the European Parliament, and on the legitimacy of the States, expressed in the Council.
It constitutes now and will for a long time to come, really until a European people exists, the principal legitimacy, as the decree of the German Constitutional Court given in October 1993 on the Treaty of Maastricht recalls.
This primary legitimacy does not only have an indirect effect on the Union through the repsonsibility of national governments, it also has a direct effect, since it is the national parliaments and often the people themselves who ratify the Treaty to which the European Parliament is subject, like all other institutions of the Union.
One wonders whether the fact that this primary truth and this primary legitimacy have been forgotten is one of the principal causes of the democratic deficit in the Union.
Mr President, this is a moving moment for me as it is my maiden speech in the European Parliament, the first time I have taken the floor in a debate.
When I was a student I was one of those coordinating the campaign for a Yes vote in the United Kingdom referendum on its continued membership of the European Union.
Indeed, I led a delegation of students all the way to Rome to demonstrate in 1975 outside a European Council meeting in favour of holding direct elections to this very Parliament which was under consideration at that meeting.
At that time it was drawing up the Spinelli report with the draft Treaty of European Union.
If I have one reservation about participating in this debate, it is that I do not believe we should be having this particular debate in this particular format.
Furthermore, we are discussing a report on a report.
We are discussing a report of the Committee on Institutional Affairs on the report of the European Council on the events of 1995 which is quite some time ago.
It would make much more sense simply to discuss the European Council's report as such in plenary when we receive it, presented perhaps by the Council or the European Council at that time and wind up the debate with a resolution to close the debate on the subject then, not draw up a report on a report and debate it a year later when the issues are long since forgotten.
If I look at the beginning of this report, it refers to the fact that we already have an annual report on the common foreign and security policy with a resolution, an annual report on justice and home affairs with a resolution, and at every European Council meeting we have a debate which tends to be a general debate on the state of the Union.
Mr President, I too should like to congratulate Richard Corbett on his maiden speech.
I agree with much of this resolution but perhaps I could depart from the polite conventions of this House by concentrating on what I disagree with.
Many more matters are already resolved at European level than most people in Europe realize.
Such talk makes a nonsense of the frequent protestations of European politicians from all institutions since Maastricht that the EU should not attempt to take on new powers but should simply strive to do what it does now better.
I know that my views are in the minority in my group and in Parliament but people who care seriously about the success of the EU - as I do - in reviewing the Council's performance in 1995, or when we come to review its performance in 1997 on the eve of the next millennium, should be saying very clearly that Europe must slow down.
I entirely share Mr Valverde's position on the purpose of the exercise provided for under article D of the Treaty on European Union.
I refer to the general report on the business of the European Union, the 1996 edition of which will be available as from 11 February, and the monthly bulletin of the European Union.
Instead, the European Council report should, as the rapporteur said, make a political assessment of the Union's progress and its difficulties and define some general political guidelines on that basis.
Like the European Parliament, the Commission in fact takes the view that specific employment provisions should be included in the treaty, that the promotion of public services, a key element in the European model of society, should be one of the objectives of the treaty, and that the Union should provide itself with the appropriate legal basis so that it can combat fraud against the financial interests of the Communities effectively.
Locating citizenship at the heart of the European Union is also a constant concern of the Commission, in line with its statement of 28 February 1996 on the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is vitally important to eliminate obstacles to free movement of persons, and to bring cooperation in a wide range of justice and internal affairs issues under Community responsibility, as well as strengthening the Union's ability to act in other areas of the third pillar.
And because of this twofold legitimacy, the national parliaments have a very important function and so does the European Parliament.
The Union's resources for action must be strengthened, especially in trade policy.
And our common foreign and security policy must be developed by creating a common analysis unit and extending qualified majority voting to this area.
In conclusion, Mr President, the Commission fully shares the rapporteur's view that the future of the European Union, including economic and monetary union and the success of the enlargement depends above all on some good results at the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is the only way the Union can obtain the resources it needs to defend its interests in the world, to respond to the aspirations of its citizens and to welcome in the candidate countries.
And I am delighted to say, Mr Valverde, that your report sustains and encourages the Commission in its daily endeavours to achieve these objectives at the Intergovernmental Conference.
The debate is closed.
Cultural aspects in European Community action The next item is the report (A4-0410/96) by Mr Escudero, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, on the first report by the Commission on the consideration of cultural aspects in European Community action (COM(96)0160 - C4-0249/96).
Mr President, the starting point of this report is the affirmation of interdependence between cultural action and political action in the European Union, and I would like to set out its general lines.
It is well-known that the integration process was originally built on economic interests, but since the Treaty of Maastricht the achievement of European citizenship has become a fundamental and highly significant objective.
Throughout the political history of the West, the acquisition of citizenship has always been linked to existence of an ideological and cultural community.
The Treaty on Union refers to culture in article 3, article 92 and, above all, the important article 128, which constitutes the new Title IX devoted to culture.
This article provides that the Community shall contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the Member States, while respecting their national diversity, encouraging cooperation between Member States, supporting and supplementing their action in a number of areas and fostering cooperation with third countries on these issues.
Now, Community action in all those areas which are not within its exclusive competence, as culture obviously is not, remains subject, under article 3 b of the treaty, to the principle of subsidiarity, so that it can only intervene in so far as the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States.
Here we recognize a flexible interpretation because a rooted and rigid one would actually make participation impossible in practice, while in any case it must keep to the limits laid down in the said article 128.
Because terrible atrocities have been committed in our own century, in the name of culture, along with uniformity and authoritarianism.
So I think Mr Escudero's report is admirable.
When children no longer think of Europe as 'an organization my country belongs to' but think of Europe as 'my country' .
When a Danish child thinks of Mozart as 'one of my country's geniuses' , when a Spaniard thinks of Goethe as 'one of my country's philosophers' or when a Greek thinks of Picasso or an English child thinks of Pasteur as 'distinguished figures from my country: Europe' .
So in my opinion the whole report is excellent.
Mr President, the Maastricht Treaty gave the European Union for the first time a competence in cultural issues and we would all agree that European culture not only merits but needs our support.
National interests should have the right to protect their own cultures as they see fit.
The distinctive feature of Europe's culture is its national diversity.
Where I totally agree with my colleague - and I say this as budget rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media - is that we need to increase the overall funding allocated to the culture sector.
Access to culture and the notion of cultural membership are essential conditions for the full participation of citizens in the life of society.
But be warned, the very rapid evolution towards the information society demands increased vigilance of the Community to promote this European cultural identity as much through the networks as through the services offered.
Let us be concerned for the safeguarding and protection of our European languages, let us export our literary, musical and audiovisual works outside the Union.
Do not be afraid of broadcasting our cultures.
They are the origins of the life of our civilisations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the EU is not able to improve the effectiveness of its cultural policy within the terms of the Maastricht Treaty and in the manner intended by the Treaty's articles on culture, the best objectives and values of the Union will fail to be realized.
In terms of the EU's cultural and educational policy, respecting the subsidiarity principle means striving towards common objectives on the basis of our own cultural identity and in the framework of our own structures.
This report talks about a European culture and a European cultural identity , but there is no such thing.
This is why the view, discussed in the report, that we should create a European culture through majority decision making in the Council of Ministers came as such a surprise and shock to me.
Mr President, many, many times, we have recalled our wish to see the European Union's competence strengthened regarding culture.
The idea is nevertheless gaining ground and this first report by the Commission on the consideration of cultural aspects can give us the hope that one day we will see culture given recognition as a structural element in the construction of Europe.
And even if we are not there yet, we should nevertheless congratulate the European Commission on this initiative.
It is a matter of taking our bearings from Article 128 which marks the establishment of a legal basis specific to culture in the Treaty of Union.
However, and we are sorry for this, the subject of this report does not concern the whole of Article 128, but only paragraph 4.
I also think that, as our rapporteur recommends, Article 128 should be considered in its entirety and the demand should be made that it is better applied, in particular by the introduction of the vote by a qualified majority in Council.
In other respects, consideration of cultural aspects is still not sufficient and it would be appropriate to retain the legal basis of Article 128 for any legislative act relating to culture.
To conclude, I would like to make a more personal comment.
As I said, I recognise the praiseworthy efforts of the Commission towards imposing respect for culture, for our culture.
I fear that reality forces a little more modesty upon us.
But we must also aid artistic creation in Europe.
And I also want to say that I concur in recognizing the importance of this debate which represents an important stage in establishing the cultural policy of the European Community.
The Commission has been occupied for some time in drawing up the report relating to article 128.4, but in reality that work is merely a first attempt to assess the magnitude of the Community's commitment in the cultural area.
The Commission's objective was to initiate a debate on the scope of new article 128 of the treaty and then draw the conclusions, exercising its right of initiative.
We are delighted both with this motion for a resolution from Parliament and for the resolution recently approved by the Council of Ministers.
Obviously the principle of subsidiarity must be respected, but not used to put a brake on Community action in the cultural field.
And I have specifically asked my staff to prepare a Green Paper on the relationship between culture and employment, which I hope to be in a position to present towards the end of the year.
The Commission notes with the greatest interest the rapporteur's proposals on the application of paragraph 4 of article 128, and I can assure you I will take them very much into account in exercising the right of initiative and executing Community policies.
And in this sense, we think that any action with repercussions on culture should reconcile its own objectives with the cultural objectives of the Community.
The idea of creating Jean Monnet Chairs of comparative European cultural history is an initiative which must be carried through to a conclusion.
Finally, the Commission takes note of the call by Parliament and the Council for an annual report on how cultural aspects have been taken into consideration in Community actions.
This was evident recently in the British press with some of the ill-informed and unhelpful coverage of paragraph 23 of Mr Escudero's report.
I came here in order to be closer to the source, closer to the place where decisions are made which could shape - for better or for worse - our own lives.
At this decisive stage in the life of the European Union, strengthening its cultural dimension will bring about decisive responses, which only it can bring about, in a sensitive area such as the economic and social cohesion of the European Union and citizenship.
The European Parliament has included in the Dury-Maij-Weggen Report on the Intergovernmental Conference innovative points which the first Commission report on the cultural impact of the European Union's policies complements and clarifies.
But I should like to pick out for its importance the recent resolution which the Irish Presidency had signed at the last 'Culture' Council held in December, which for the first time enshrines a consensus between the Member States around the new attitude to the dynamic role of culture in the European Union opening the way to strengthened inter-institutional co-operation which has been expected and hoped for for a long time.
Article 128 has to be changed so that we can have a legal basis for all actions which have a cultural dimension.
By giving the European Union the right to implement a cultural policy which respects the national and regional diversity of Member States, while at the same time highlighting the common cultural heritage, by making decisions relating to the cultural sector subject to a qualified majority, with codecision of Parliament, culture really would become one of the basic preoccupations of Europe.
The revision of Article 128 of the Treaty would be, to paraphrase a speech from history, a small step for modifications to texts, but a great step for the destiny of cultural creation.
To conclude, I am sorry in this respect that the European Commissioner, who has not stayed for the whole debate, though it has not been a long one, has not stated clearly whether he is for or against the modification of Article 128, a modification which, for my part, I support entirely.
The Commissioner replied to points and the debate continued afterwards.
Thank you, Mr Evans.
The debate is closed.
I must keep stressing that point, because critics of the concept behave as if the Green Paper meant that everything was already enshrined in law.
In principle, the Green Paper is applicable to all sectors of transport: road, rail, waterways and air.
I cannot find a single reference in the Green Paper that lends any weight to that assertion.
The Green Paper does not invent any additional costs which make transport more expensive.
The intention is that internalization should lead to a reduction in costs, so that both businesses and the public have to spend less on transport costs, and above all: those costs must be reliably quantifiable.
Road transport accounts for 62 % of carbon monoxide emissions, 50 % of nitrogen oxide, 33 % of hydrocarbon and 17 % of carbon dioxide emissions.
According to one fairly recent study, more than 20 % of the EU's population are exposed to traffic noise which is higher than the noise level that people can reasonably be expected to tolerate.
I also note the absence in the Green Paper of any statement or study in connection with CO2 emissions.
Mr President, as demonstrated in the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs for which I have been the rapporteur, the points made in the Green Paper on internalizing external transport costs in the European Union only represent a first approach to the issue, not least because the Commission proposes to act only on road transport, and specifically on the transport of heavy goods by road, which would probably create more distortions in competition than already exist.
It is equally hard to understand why the Commission insists on concentrating on the transport of goods when the two most important causes of external costs in road transport are congestion and accidents.
I could mention many other weaknesses in the Green Paper, but my speaking time does not permit it.
A second essential principle is equality of treatment for all transport and mobility providers.
The report is therefore a compromise, but of a high quality.
We are all against unfair competition in the areas of tax, energy consumption, pollution, working hours, etc.
We Christian Democrats support the Green Paper as a first attempt to analyse the external costs which are caused by transport and should also be paid for by transport.
On the question of payment for the use of roads, I should prefer to say nothing at present, because I shall be presenting a separate report on this.
Commissioner, on 27 March last year, addressing this House on the subject of the appropriate relationship between the costs of maintaining motorways and the tolls charged for using them, you recalled the case of the Brenner Highway, where the tolls are so high, for the stretch from the Brenner to Innsbruck, as to be three times as great as the maintenance cost on which they are supposed to be based - which is a violation of the Community Treaties and of the accession agreements.
On 5 December last year, here in Brussels, I organized a seminar entitled 'Harmonization of transport costs within the European Union' .
To that end we support paragraphs 7, 8, 11, 12 and 15 and these together make the report acceptable as a whole.
A study commissioned from the firm Tebodin by the Dutch Minister of Transport and Public Works, currently president of the Council of Ministers, revealed that in freight transport more than 100 % of the costs are met.
The report concludes that internalization will not push up the cost of transport.
Better still are other methods which as you know are not motorized, but they do not enter into it since we are talking about Europe here.
But air transport is the least friendly form of transport for the environment.
It is not so much the rapporteur but those on the right of the House who are to blame for the very mediocre quality of this report.
In order to prevent delays and make better use of our overstretched infrastructure it is better to favour economically important traffic using a system of road pricing.
Increasing duty is of course a generic measure which differentiates little according to time and place but an increase in duty can be imposed quickly and simply.
If we consider the problem of transporting 2000 tonnes over 1000 kilometres, CO2 emissions amount to 7 tonnes for transport by sea, 11 tonnes by rail and 60 tonnes by road.
As can be seen, the intermodal aspects are important.
The accurate calculation of external costs should also help in encouraging a change in the modal split.
Mr President, I welcome the Commission proposals towards a fair and efficient pricing as a means of establishing fairer competition between transport modes.
I should like to congratulate the Commissioner and his staff for the document and also our rapporteur on the excellent work she has done.
Both the Commission Green Paper and the rapporteur's report put great emphasis on fiscal measures.
Yet public transport today only accounts for between 10 and 15 % of the total mobility market.
I should like to request the Commissioner to pledge the support of other Commissioners and himself to fund research and development programmes, in particular through the fourth and fifth framework programmes, for public transport as part of a general transport policy.
Mr Sindal, that is not a point of order.
We are not proposing these measures purely from an environmental point of view but also in order to strengthen the internal market and protect free competition within the European Union.
Mr President, I wish to exercise my right under the Rules to make a personal statement.
Mr President, I hate to intervene on what is obviously a domestic quarrel but I am certain that Mr Sindal was not in the slightest petulant.
As the House will know, in the year since I presented the Commission Green Paper on fair and efficient pricing in transport, the debate has been lively, as we have witnessed again tonight, and the consultation has been wide.
I have had the opportunity to discuss the issue in all its forms and implications with a very broad range of people and organizations including those who attended our conference on the subject in this city last November.
First, that pricing should form an integral part of comprehensive transport policies in all modes of transport.
But on closer examination of the Green Paper everyone will observe very clearly that extensive reference is made to all modes.
Not only is reference made in passive form but there are specific proposals now being implemented for further examinations and studies relating to the variety of modes of transport.
Having gone through this initial exercise of identifying the hidden costs which transport activities generate, we must now move on to the development of conceptual thinking and to the practical task of compiling proposals for workable and productive Community policies and, where appropriate, legislation.
I would point out to one or two contributors to the debate tonight that Community action is appropriate, simply because we have a Community, because we have a single market, because transport in all of its modes is interrelated and integrated and in the name of equity, fair competitive conditions and the need universally to safeguard the environment, there is a very strong case for Community activity, based entirely on the willingness of democratically elected governments of the Member States to endorse or to modify proposals that come from the Commission and from this House.
The first tangible move in the direction of the development of workable policies, as the House already knows, comes in the Commission proposal for revision of the directive on road charges for heavy goods vehicles.
Judging from the discussions and conclusions on the Green Paper, I hope I am right in thinking that the House will once again give its valued support for that initiative.
A similar view led us to limit the discussion on abatement of carbon dioxide emissions in the Green Paper since that has been, and still is considered to be, a cross-sectoral issue.
I should now like briefly to go through a few points where I feel some further clarification or information on the Commission's views or activities could add to the understanding between us in our different institutions and enhance the constructive cooperation between us.
What comes to mind first is our common position concerning the need to secure the development of a well-balanced transport system where all transport modes realize their full potential.
While we are in the process of working to establish such a balance, however, it is clear that even as we respect the principle that all modes should pay their real costs, some modes need to be particularly fostered in one way or another.
Finally, as a follow-up to last November's conference and in response to a proposal put forward by industry representatives, I will be launching a tripartite initiative on best environmental practice and I will be inviting industry, transport operators and environmental organizations to participate.
The most practical way to achieve the best, overall results is to mobilize all forces to act on the variety of aspects of the complex problem of improving our transport system in an environmentally compatible way.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, in line with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, and together with the Confederal Group of the European Unitarian Left - Nordic Green Left, I propose what in effect was decided in the Committee on Investigation, Technological Development and Energy last week, on 21 January, because it recognized the value of debating this report again in more depth, giving all the groups time to introduce amendments and contribute to improving the report.
Mr Marset Campos, your request has been made on behalf of a political group and is perfectly in keeping with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, I want to begin my speech by announcing the clear and decided support of the Committee on Research for this multiannual programme presented to us by the Commission.
Assuming we can maintain the same criterion then that we are applying now, it will mean that substantial progress has been made in a really important area for the European Union.
And we want to involve the citizens in it, gathering their opinions and avoiding 'enlightened despotism' , aware that they can make a major contribution.
Mr President, we need a legal basis for carrying out scientific surveys, and this is proposed in the report.
The current situation is unsatisfactory.
The States collaborate voluntarily as best they can because they want to, in some cases, but without the ingredient of compulsion that is needed for all the States to unify and harmonize their statistics and the legal basis the European Union needs to demand collaboration and not just urge collaboration.
And finally, Mr President, the new information society should cover all the components of collection and presentation of scientific statistics, because we certainly cannot stand outside this new model of society which is going to be designed, at the scientific level, by the information society.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just how important statistics are is something of which we shall have evidence enough once again this year.
The debate about participation in monetary union is almost exclusively concerned with the satisfying of the indebtedness criteria, and in principle that is simply a matter of data which were obtained by means of statistical techniques.
This example also shows, incidentally, how difficult it often is to obtain comparable data.
But our debate today is not concerned with economics - it is concerned with the interim Commission report on research and innovation.
To enable us to optimize the results of the common research policy, we need to create the optimum conditions, and this is where the Community statistics come into play.
It is absolutely essential to have up-to-date data from all Member States, acquired on the same basis, when planning research programmes.
It is essential that we should make a start now on making our knowledge regarding the production of statistics available to the States of central and eastern Europe.
For a start, this will guarantee that we get reliable data on those States' capacities, and we shall also be helping them to become competitive.
Mr President, may I first express my pleasure at the presence here of Commissioner Kinnock and his sharing our interest in statistics.
The important point here is the need for dissemination of results of research in the European Union and without statistics it is very difficult to disseminate results.
We must note the importance of networks in research and a high level of participation of different partners in the research of the fourth framework.
Mr Izquierdo Collado in his report makes reference to the debate between applied research and basic research.
May I just give some credit to the contribution that the United Kingdom makes as I believe a partner in the largest number of research projects in the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's report on the establishment of a multiannual programme for the development of Community statistics on research, development and innovation provides a useful opportunity to argue in favour of harmonizing the structures of statistical databases in the European Union.
The creation of a European system of research statistics is an invaluable tool for evaluating and measuring the progress of the research programmes, and thus for providing a more solid basis for the guidelines and investment decisions of Community research policy.
I am in agreement with this initiative by the Commission, and I am in agreement with the rapporteur on the need also to take public opinion into account.
It will also be adopted by a number of leading organizations in the European field, but I do wonder, with a degree of scepticism, whether the introduction of these new statistical methods in the context of the activity, research and development programmes of the Member States, will in itself be sufficient to bring order, to cast light on a mass of activities, sometimes coordinated by ministers and sundry bodies - I refer here to the Italian situation, with which I am rather more familiar - which often do not even succeed in avoiding duplication of programmes, not to mention research programmes in industry which have little desire to provide a record of their activities for outsiders.
Finally, we must not forget that the research undertaken by the Member States is precisely what constitutes the greater part of Europe's research investment.
Perhaps he did not suspect my fascinated interest in matters statistical but I know it is one that I share with a very large number of people associated with this Parliament, which is why they are clearly flocking into this debate tonight.
When in 1994 the Council adopted its decision to establish a multi-annual programme for achieving these objectives, it therefore asked for an interim report.
The report produced last year provides an inventory of the situation and also indicated that the work mentioned in Article 4 of the decision is well advanced.
Izquierdo Collado, for his very detailed study of the Commission's text and for the interest that he and his colleagues have shown in these proposals.
As the report before the House sensibly notes, organizational changes and the growing importance of the knowledge industry make adaptations to the traditional statistical framework necessary.
A second Community survey on innovation will consequently be launched this year in the Member States which should encompass some of these aspects.
In order to achieve these objectives more effectively, the Commission plans to promote the role of statistics in the Fifth Framework Research and Development Programme and to include it in statistical initiatives.
However, there are other Member States which consider that a legal framework would be desirable to ensure the provision of high-quality statistics at European level.
The Commission is grateful to this Parliament for its support for the development of a system of harmonized statistical information on science and technology.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, this thirteenth annual report on the application of Community law which the Commission is proposing to us fulfils, in accordance with a now well-established attitude, two essential functions.
But beyond this record made in the thirteenth report, in a very analytical way, we have a chance to reflect in depth upon the ways of getting to know better the day to day reality of Community law in the Member States and, from this thirteenth report, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has drawn three principal approaches.
Firstly, as the Committee on Legal Affairs has shown many times over and for all institutions of the Union, what is true for some must also be true for others.
In the domain of the implementation of Community law, the Commission needs to demonstrate greater transparency when it uses its discretionary power to initiate infringement proceedings, in particular in the pre-litigation stage provided for by Article 169 of the Treaty.
In deciding, by means of a press release, to make known the criteria of application of Article 171 of the Treaty, and to define the method it uses to calculate financial penalties imposed upon States, the Commission is moving in the direction of greater transparency.
For even if 90 % of applicable directives are transposed, with a very good rate among the last three States to join the Union, it should be noted that it is in crucial areas such as agriculture, transport and the environment that the greatest number of problems can be observed.
Beyond the responsibility of the States, and because of the diversity and sometimes the complexity of the internal organisation of the various States, it seems that it would be of interest to establish a permanent dialogue at various levels, between the Commission and national legislators, in order to create a true legal Community.
This might even encourage them to ask for technical assistence, as needed, in order that the essential aim, that of the correct application of Community law, be achieved.
If cooperation with national authorities concerning information is important at this stage, the role of citizens and national courts in the application of Community law should not be ignored.
This depends in the first instance upon national law, regarding the conditions of form and content.
It is particularly important, therefore, that the parliaments of Member States, which are the origin of national law, should be conscious of the fact that they have a role to play in this very specific area of the right to reparation.
The Committee on Legal Affairs just hopes strongly that sufficient financial support will be made available for these activities.
In the same way, in the domain of information, it hopes for several things: that thanks to the financial participation of the Community, national courts might be given access to the Celex system in a user-friendly format; that law students in the Union might have a sufficient knowledge of Community law, even if they are not aiming for the legal or judicial professions, for example administrative, careers, journalism, etc.; that professionals in legal and judicial disciplines might receive, themselves, tuition and training in Community law, before embarking on their professions.
These proposals are in the interest of all, in the interest of Member States, in the interest of the Union and in the interest of citizens.
A transparent system of Community law which is simple, well-known, and which meets the expectations of citizens would thus be the best means of eradicating the current feeling of doubt affecting public opinion with respect to the construction of Europe.
The role of us, the Parliament, as the representative of all the citizens of the Union, is to be conscious of this lack of enthusiasm, but our role as an institution is to act in such a way as to reverse this drift.
Secondly, we reiterate - with little hope, because we have been insisting on this for seven years - the need to accelerate the procedure under article 169.
And we must also insist on the unhesitating use of article 171 because it is scandalous how many decisions are ignored by those - the governments, of course -who participate in drawing up the legislation.
The Commission is the guardian of the treaty, but the governments are responsible for applying the law and monitoring its strict fulfilment.
The Commission's efforts on transparency are very positive and we applaud them, because we must always remember that the citizens are fundamental to the construction of Europe, and only the sceptics and anti-Europeans favour opacity.
The proper working of the internal market depends to a large extent on the degree to which its rules are as familiar and comprehensible and applied in the same manner as the rules of national law.
This answers a call that I myself made in my capacity as the rapporteur of last year's report by the Legal Affairs Committee on the Commission report on monitoring the application of Community law.
Whilst there are Member States which quite simply flout Community legislation, at the same time summum ius can mean summa iniuria , extreme law can create extreme injustice.
A flagrant error in the application of Community law.
Mr President, Commissioner, I must begin by thanking the rapporteur for providing us with so many practical suggestions on study and exchange programmes, training in Community law, as has just been emphasized, breach-of-contract proceedings and many other aspects.
I believe these are all practical and reasonable suggestions which this House should support, and no doubt will support.
One aspect I regard as particularly important is the 'Citizens of Europe' initiative mentioned in Section 16 of the report, a guide to citizens' rights and duties with regard to the application of Community law.
As the House will know, the annual report on the monitoring of Community law which was first produced in 1983 at Parliament's request, relates to the first of the tasks assigned to the Commission by Article 155 of the Community Treaty which is to ensure, and I quote the Treaty: ' that the provisions of this Treaty and the measures taken by the institution pursuant thereto are applied' .
The Commission's report is very much the result of a productive exchange between Parliament and the Commission.
The first objective of the Annual Report is for the Commission to give an account of its own action and the Thirteenth Report noted an improvement in the handling of infringement proceedings, with a start being made on reducing the time that they take.
Firstly, the lack of transparency in Commission decisions on infringements.
Secondly, the excessive number of Court judgments that have not been complied with.
Thirdly, the inadequate diffusion of Community law.
I report to the House with some satisfaction but without any complacency that in 1996 the Commission was particularly active in all three of those areas.
The Commission has already moved in the direction requested by Parliament.
Similarly, in response to remarks made by the Ombudsman, the Commission always endeavours to secure the opinion of the complainant before deciding to close a case.
This should make for improved application of Community law in the Member States.
Even though the diffusion of Community law is clearly a matter first and foremost for the Member States, the Commission seeks to provide the necessary impetus obviously within its competence.
The debate is closed.
