You will today witness with us a historic moment in the life of the European Union, which will give us all the opportunity to expand and further our relations.
Mrs van Putten, I would be grateful if you would refrain from using the point-of-order procedure for reopening debates on reports.
In view of the importance of the subject on the one hand and the very full agenda on the other, I would like to make the following proposal to change the agenda pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure: the Samland report will be incorporated with debate into this sitting's agenda; -the debate will take place at 11.45 a.m.; -the rapporteur will introduce his report and then each political group and the non-attached Members will have two minutes speaking time; -the vote will take place at voting time this sitting.Is there any objection?
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, you are a lawyer.
I wanted a debate and not a vote without a debate.
It therefore appears as a vote without debate.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, under Rule 96(2), that you referred to, a proposal has to have been rejected in order not to be tabled again.
We are applying the same Rule 96(2), first paragraph, authorizing the President to propose changes to the agenda.
I put to the vote the President's proposal to change the agenda. (Parliament approved the change to the agenda proposed by the President) Topical and urgent debate (objections) The next item is the vote on objections to the debate on topical and urgent matters of major importance (Rule 47).
Mr President, I should like to refer to the rules.
There is no Rule preventing us from voting on this item.
So you are both right and wrong. (Mixed reactions) Agenda 2000 The next item is the Commission's presentation of its communication on Agenda 2000 (development of Union policies, enlargement, future financial framework), followed by a debate.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 January 1995 I appeared before you to tell you how I conceived the terms of reference of this Commission, whose terms of office will come to an end in the first days of the next century.
The considerations that we have made over the last two and a half years have, at bottom, never lost sight of these aims: strengthening the European Union and preparing for enlargement.
I am not one of those who think that the European Union can increase the number of its Member States without any risk for its political project.
The unified Europe whose foundations we laid down in 1952 and that we have been building for more than forty years, this Europe which, I say proudly, has accomplished great things, now sees artificial divisions coming to an end.
Today, as the European Council instructed us to do at its meeting in Madrid in December 1995, the Commission is presenting a coherent project to deal with a set of complex questions and, above all, interdependent ones - may I insist on the latter point.
We cannot conceive the pursuit of agricultural reforms or the reform of structural policies without taking into consideration, at the same time, enlargement or financial constraints.
Deepening and enlargement are sometimes presented as contradictory aims since a broader Union will necessarily be more diverse and more complex, because new solidarities are being added to those which now unite the Member States, since it will take longer and be more difficult to take decisions in an enlarged Union and those constraints, ladies and gentlemen, are real.
They call for a two-fold response: deepening the Union, by introducing the euro, as planned, on 1 January 1999, and developing internal policies while reforming our institutions.
As far as institutional reform is concerned, let me be clear: if we want the European Union to remain an unprecedented model of success, if we want, despite the handicap of numbers, to retain the means to act, if we want every citizen of Europe to recognise the Union's decisions as legitimate ones if, in a nutshell, politicians are still determined to construct Europe, then we must agree to go further in the reform of the institutions and decisionmaking procedures.
The Intergovernmental Conference that has just come to an end in Amsterdam brings the first response.
It is the meaning of the protocol on the future of the institutions appended to the Amsterdam Treaty.
Before any enlargement - and I mean, before any enlargement - we must define the weighting of votes in the Council, to go with the reduction in the number of Commissioners to one per Member State.
It is essential, from the Commission's view point, to find a political agreement on this reform before the end of the century.
As the institutional protocol foresees, the European Union cannot expand by more than another five Member States without a more far-reaching reform of the provisions of the Treaty on the membership and operations of the institutions.
The Commission feels that a new Intergovernmental Conference should be convened as soon after the year 2000 as possible. (Applause) Mr President, the Agenda 2000 communication comprises three main sections: strengthening the Union's policies, tackling enlargement properly and setting up a financial framework.
These reforms need to be devised, as a priority, for the citizens of the Union.
Each major policy cannot be treated as a one-off, our programmes cannot be dealt with as independent instruments, in other words we must let the right hand know what the left hand does - especially since the ordered mobilization of all our resources is more than ever necessary.
The decisions taken in Amsterdam on the stability and growth pact back us up on that.
The Commission has selected four main aims for internal Community policies: creating the conditions for sustainable growth, basing growth on knowledge, undertaking a far-reaching modernization of employment systems and promoting a safe society based on solidarity, concerned for the general interest and respectful of the environment.
In order to apply those guidelines, the Commission proposes increasing the relative share of the internal policies in the Community budget, while concentrating on priorities, such as research and development, training and, of course, the major networks.
The Commission should rethink its own role, focusing its action on these main tasks and, as announced at the Intergovernmental Conference, the Commission will proceed to a regrouping and redefinition of its tasks and a matching reorganization of its services and departments.
Mr President, over time, economic and social cohesion has become one of the pillars of European construction.
The public priority of this aim must be very clearly maintained.
The prospect of enlargement to include new countries, with a lower level of development, means that this is all the more necessary.
Reducing regional disparities, supporting the regions in economic mutation and developing human resources throughout the Union, those are three clear priorities that the Commission has picked out and which should be translated into three corresponding objectives.
This approach combined with the maintenance in GDP terms of the overall cohesion effort achieved by 1999, will make it possible to meet the real needs for structural aid in the Union while taking into consideration new needs for solidarity arising from enlargement.
In practical terms, that will be translated into 230 billion ECU for the period 2000-2006 for the current fifteen Member States and an additional 45 billion, for the new Member States.
The Cohesion Fund will remain the instrument par excellence for helping the less prosperous countries to continue their process of economic catch-up and convergence.
This tool will be of great interest for future Member States whose investment needs are particularly great in these fields.
Since it is above all a cohesion instrument, the Commission proposes maintaining the benefit for countries in the euro zone and whose GDP per inhabitant is less than 90 % the Community mean.
I firmly believe that it will remain central for European construction as it has been, with success, over the last forty years.
This adjustment will make the progressive integration of new Member States easier thanks to a two-fold trend towards lower prices in the European Union and higher prices in central and eastern Europe.
This approach will also reduce the risk of uncontrolled increases in the production of future Member States.
The Commission forecasts a drop in institutional prices and I insist on the term institutional.
The consumer will benefit from this new approach whereas public support for farming will slightly increase.
I spoke earlier of competitiveness but I should also like to refer to rural development, the necessary changes towards a type of farming that is closer to man, closer to the environment and also more concerned with quality production.
Mr President, the second part of Agenda 2000 is dedicated to the challenge of enlargement.
The assessment of these criteria is therefor prospective.
In this context, I should emphasize that it is not enough to adopt the legislative acts.
Assessment of the criteria leads us to the conclusion that it is possible to contemplate beginning negotiations for accession with five countries, in addition to Cyprus.
They are, in order of the presentation of their applications to join the European Union, Hungary, Poland, Estonia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia.
On the contrary, they are all invited to become fully-fledged Member States of the European Union.
Our proposals mean that the least prepared countries must be placed decisively in the perspective of future negotiations.
The Commission will report every year to the European Council on progress made.
The Commission has adopted the idea to convene a conference of all the European States which want to join and which are linked to the Union through an association agreement.
It seems vital that all these countries should come closer together and confer over questions as important for the future of the Union as a common foreign policy or matters of justice and internal safety.
Mr President, the new financial framework, which will apply as of the year 2000, should cover a sufficiently long period to finance the deepening of our policies and enlargement and ensure a healthy management of public finances.
The Commission feels that it is possible, beneath that ceiling, to pursue the reform of the common agricultural policy, to maintain the effort for cohesion and to develop internal and external policies.
At the same time, the costs of the first enlargement and the creation of a major financial programme to prepare the candidates for accession could be financed.
The Commission has taken into consideration a certain number of factors and in particular the margins that can be found in the agricultural guideline and the effect of an increased concentration of structural spending.
Allow me to quota some figures on the financial implications of Agenda 2000: the subsequent reform of the common agricultural policy will be translated, at the end of the period, into an additional net cost of around 4 billion ECU per annum.
As far as economic and social cohesion is concerned, the total sum available for the period 2000-2006 will come to 275 billion ECU of which we are reserving, as I said, 45 billion ECU for the new Member States.
Out of these 45 billion ECU, 7 billion will however be taken out to financial a pre-accession structural aid for all the candidate countries.
The combined effort of the various pre-accession and integration aids of the new Member States in Community policies will account for a considerable amount, 75 billion ECU over the period.
On the latter point, the Agenda 2000 communication advances a certain number of medium and long-term considerations as to the fairness of the system, the possibility of intruding new resources and budgetary corrections.
May I reiterate my opening remarks: Agenda 2000 intends to tackle all the questions likely to face the European Union at the beginning of the 21st century.
The deepening of the Union's policies to meet the needs of a Europe that goes on growing; enlargement, because this historic duty called for an ambitious response; and the initial planning of a financial framework compatible with Economic and Monetary Union, the priority project of them all.
The European Commission is tackling these deadlines with a desire to succeed.
I do not doubt the will of the Member States nor that of all the candidate countries.
Our success, ladies and gentlemen, will be Europe's success! (Sustained applause) Mr President, I wish to begin by associating myself fully and obviously with President Santer's remark that this is indeed an historic occasion, and it is particularly appropriate that we should today be presenting the Agenda 2000 package to the elected representatives of the citizens of Europe.
I would particularly underline the assurance which he and Prime Minister Kok, of the then Netherlands presidency, gave to the applicants that the need for further institutional reform within the European Union cannot be denied but should be arranged in a way which will not imply a delay in the enlargement process.
Allow me now to explain in a little more detail the position taken by the Commission in the Agenda 2000 package with respect to the process of enlargement.
The Commission's opinions on each of the applications for membership take as their starting-point the conditions for membership established in 1993 by the Copenhagen European Council.
These conditions relate to the applicant's political and economic situation and its capacity to fulfil the other obligations of membership, known as the acquis .
While the Commission alone is responsible for the assessment it has made, it has also drawn on evaluations in particular fields made by the Member States and by competent international bodies, including OSCE and the Council of Europe on the political side, and EBRD, the World Bank and IMF on the economic side.
The Commission, for its part, continues to stress that enlargement is an overall process involving all applicants.
The opinions show that there is a clear distinction between those applicants whose progress until now creates the reasonable expectation that they will be able to assume the obligations of membership in the medium term, without excessively long negotiations or transitional periods, and, on the other hand, those for whom such an expectation is not yet justified.
The approach recommended by the Commission is that negotiations should be opened early next year with those countries which not only satisfy the political conditions for membership, but have also made sufficient progress towards satisfying the other conditions to enable them to take on the obligations of membership in the medium term, albeit with additional efforts.
The pre-accession strategy should be backed up, naturally, by additional financial support.
The Commission is proposing that from the year 2000 onwards, ECU 1bn per year be made available from the structural funds, ECU 500m in agricultural programmes, in addition to support from PHARE, which is ECU 1.2bn per annum.
The reinforced pre-accession strategy will be accompanied by a commitment from the Union to review the progress made by each country in satisfying the conditions for membership by the end of 1998 at the latest, and thereafter such a report will be drawn up on an annual basis.
This has been confirmed and reinforced by Article F of the draft Amsterdam Treaty.
The opinions conclude that although the quality of democracy could be further improved in most countries, only in Slovakia are political problems so severe as to rule out in themselves the opening of negotiations at this point in time.
Our principal concern is precisely the lack of stability in that country of the institutions which ought to provide the necessary political guarantees.
With respect to the other conditions for membership which are related to their economic situation and their capacity to implement the acquis , the Commission has not only analysed the existing situation but made a systematic evaluation of the trends in order to arrive at a judgement concerning each applicant's capacity to fulfil these conditions in the medium term.
With regard to the ability to cope with competitive pressures and market forces within the European Union, each of the five countries has its strengths and weaknesses, but they all can be expected to satisfy this condition in the medium term if further and sometimes significant efforts are made.
The methodology we have employed is set out in chapter 2 of Agenda 2000.
They lead to the conclusion that the accession negotiations should be open with the five applicants just mentioned.
These countries not only satisfy the political conditions, but have established their market economies and made sufficient progress in satisfying the other conditions to warrant the opening of these negotiations.
The Commission is impressed by the efforts to prepare for membership which have been taken by the other applicants, especially in recent months.
It is important to recall that there is no necessary link between the number of countries with which the Union begins negotiations and the number of countries that eventually join the Union in a first group or wave.
The Agenda 2000 recalls that the Commission delivered a favourable opinion in 1993 on Cyprus' application for membership and the European Council has reaffirmed on several occasions that accession negotiations should start six months after the conclusion of the IGC.
Agenda 2000 also confirms Turkey's eligibility for EU membership as confirmed at the recent Association Council.
The Commission points out that macro-economic instability in Turkey is a source of concern and that above all major improvements in the political situation, in particular in the protection of human rights still need to be made.
The Commission was asked by the Council to reflect on ways in which relations with Turkey could be further developed building on the Customs Union.
We approved a communication on this yesterday which is also being sent to Parliament.
In conclusion, the European Union faces an historic responsibility during the coming months.
It will be up to the European Council of course to take the decision on the opening of accession negotiations.
The Commission has carried out its responsibilities under Article O of the Treaty in presenting clear, unambiguous recommendations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that President Santer is presenting Agenda 2000 to the European Parliament first, and I expressly welcome that.
However, I would have welcomed it even more if a spokesman for the Commission had not already presented important elements of Agenda 2000 to the press yesterday evening!
It represents our political and moral commitment to those peoples who have won back their freedom.
President Santer has made a proposal regarding the financing.
Because the issue is clear-cut: either the European Union, through enlargement, exports economic, political, social and ecological stability to the East, or the day will come when we have no option but to import instability from the East.
Part of the challenge confronting us is to make eastward enlargement acceptable to the citizens of our Union.
Acceptance of enlargement is greater among politicians in the Member States than among the general public.
It must make its contribution to creating employment in the European Union.
It is not for me to go through the accounts here and now, President Santer - the European Parliament and my own group will be doing that in the coming months.
And this is not just a matter of broadening the financial framework beyond 1.27 % of the gross national product - it is a matter of using it up completely and redistributing expenditure within the framework.
We are prepared to reform the Structural Funds.
As far as institutional reforms are concerned, it will not be enough to tack on a few bits and pieces here - weighting the votes in the Council of Ministers, for example - or do a little pruning there - in the number of Commissioners, for example.
In all seriousness, enlargement - which means the fate of Europe - is not going to depend on whether there are fifteen or sixteen or twenty or twenty-two Commissioners, or on whether country X or country Y has ten or twelve votes in the Council!
We need this fundamental reform before the first new Member State joins us, not after one has already joined. (Applause) And another point: this cannot be achieved by an Intergovernmental Conference, burning the midnight oil to cobble together a wild, incoherent treaty of bits and pieces. (Applause) A treaty of bits and pieces in which no one can actually tell which are the bits and which are the pieces. (Laughter) Not all governments have grasped the fact that the coming enlargement - never mind whether there are five or six or eleven new Member States - is going to happen.
And not all the governments in the present Union have grasped the connection between enlargement and reform.
That is the problem that will face us during the next few years.
This conference must not be a mere discussion forum - it must be able to conclude agreements, at least within the second and third pillars. (Applause) Incidentally, perhaps I may be permitted a personal comment: I proposed a similar plan in a strategy report presented to this House as far back as early 1993.
No state must be excluded from the negotiations because it is not present in Madrid, nor will any state have to attend our round of negotiations just because it has first been refused NATO membership in Madrid.
We, the European Parliament, will be making our contribution in the months ahead, between now and the Luxembourg summit, and afterwards.
Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure on the distribution of documents states that the documents on which Parliament's debates and decisions are based must be printed and distributed to the Members, and Rule 102(1) states that the European Parliament's documents must be prepared in the official languages.
I think it is a great mistake that the Commission, when talking about the Union's future, has published them in only three languages.
Mr President, President Santer, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with a word of acknowledgement and congratulation to the Commission, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, for preparing and presenting to us today its Agenda 2000 for a stronger and larger Union.
But, President Santer, we expect you to ensure that important debates in the future are not released in advance by press spokesmen; important political issues should always first be presented in the European Parliament, representing as it does 370 million citizens.
If anyone, ten years ago, had been bold enough to predict that the European Commission, in the person of its president Jacques Santer, would propose to the European Parliament on 16 July 1997 that negotiations on European Union membership should begin with Estonia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia and Cyprus, he would have been dismissed as a fantasist.
But our generation has witnessed a dramatic transformation of this continent in the years 1989-90 and since, a transformation probably unmatched in any previous period of history.
Let us never forget that it was the people of the central and eastern European states who made that transformation possible. (Applause) It was the people of central and eastern Europe upon whom communist dictatorship was enforced after 1945.
For that, we in the west of Europe owe great respect, profound recognition and sincere thanks to the people of central and eastern Europe.
We in the European Union have a duty now to help the people of central and eastern Europe to safeguard their own freedom.
When the Commission proposes that accession negotiations should begin with the six states - five plus one, in other words - it must be made clear that the other five states that are willing to join are not being excluded.
But we need to make it clear that, within the framework of the accession strategy and on the basis of the annual reports to be drawn up by the Commission, any country with which the European Union has concluded a European agreement can, by a flexible process, move forward to become a country with which accession negotiations can take place.
The President of the Commission has referred to enormous sums: DM 275 billion.
On the other hand, a European conference is planned for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and for policy on internal affairs and justice, involving a meeting of heads of State and Government once a year.
As we approach the year 2000, Europe is faced by important challenges.
So we welcome the Commission's undertaking to the Member States to convene an Intergovernmental Conference immediately after the year 2000, whose primary purpose will be to contribute to the establishment of majority voting as the basic decision tool in the Council of the European Union.
I demand, on behalf of my Group, that we spend an exceptional session of at least two days, before the end of this year, if we can find room in our calendar, on this important debate, once the political groups and competent committees have examined in detail the Commission's proposals.
Agenda 2000 is a remarkable work of compiling statistical data and accounts, but it lacks any political dimension.
All of my colleagues in the UPE Group, like myself, will never resign ourselves to abandoning our friends in Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Latvia.
It is important to point out that the costs of enlargement will actually be quite small - only 1.27 % of the Union's GNP - but the advantages will be many times greater.
Mr President, Agenda 2000 is being presented just a few weeks after the disappointing outcome of the Amsterdam European Council, which was extremely timid in its reform of the Maastricht Treaty and was reluctant to debate the employment issue.
Perhaps this is what some governments would like, but not the majority in this House nor the majority of citizens.
We accept enlargement in political terms, via a process based on negotiation and one which makes steady progress, which guarantees the maintenance and development of policies and instruments such as the CAP and the Structural and Cohesion Funds; a process which does not give rise to unacceptable social and productive costs for current and future members, with whom individual negotiations should be held, promoting the development of democratic and social-solidarity systems and without the order in which discussions begin automatically signifying preferential treatment in terms of the early accession of either individual countries or groups of countries.
The real question now, politically speaking, is of course whether the countries of Eastern Europe and Cyprus are the ones who are going to have to pay for the inability of the Fifteen to reform in time.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, today's debate refers to various questions.
The first concerns the list of eligible countries.
Supporting the idea of another IGC to carry out the reforms needed for any enlargement, in particular with regard to majority voting on the Council means that the Commission is taking up an idea that we mooted in the wake of the Amsterdam Summit.
I shall leave it to my colleagues in my Group to develop our comments on the conditions and budgetary consequences of enlargement.
Mr President, the accession of the countries of central and eastern Europe to the European Union is not the benefit that Brussels circles claim, in the name of their ideology, without taking into consideration the true interest of the peoples concerned.
Everyone knows how stubbornly determined Chancellor Kohl, the statesman, is to prepare the future.
Integration into the Maastricht Europe really means that the countries of central Europe are marching towards social regression and protectorate.
We are therefore calling for there to be negotiations with the applicant countries only after we have established how the enlarged Union will operate at an institutional level.
Indeed, we want at last to be informed of how the Europe of the Fifteen is operating, since it has yet to establish both the second and the third pillar and is not therefore really a political Union.
We want to know when we are going to get serious discussions about the institutional base, and whether the idea of a federal European State has been finally shelved, leaving Europe is destined to be merely a colony of the wealthier nations.
We want to know what is going to be done for the 20 million unemployed and the more than 20 million poor people currently living in the Union, before we start worrying about the unemployment and poverty in new countries which ought to share our common European destiny.
We absolutely reject the practice that has become established in this House whereby bulky documents are debated that are not available in our national languages; we are elected Members whose prime responsibility is to the citizens of the European Union rather than the European interests of some State or multinational.
Enlargement would increase the population of the EU by more than a third, bringing it to 500 m as compared with the current 370 m.
GDP, in contrast, would rise by only some 5 %, so that we would see a worsening of the gap between the rich and the poor countries, the big and the small countries, the countries of the North and the countries of the South.
They participate in the access on partnerships, they take part in all the general debates and in all the decisions, as listeners or observers.
The political element remains within the scope of the decisions by the Council of Ministers, and dare I say, the European Parliament.
Against a background of continuing change, of the kind Europe is experiencing as it prepares for future enlargement, the principle of economic and social cohesion becomes still more important and a matter of moment.
It is a bad pedagogical approach and it is bad politics, if it means that we must now apply more resources to certain countries and fewer resources to others, which perhaps have the greatest need and perhaps mean a great deal to peace and security in the Europe of the future.
We have no special objections in principle to enlargement.
That is the reality.
The urgent need for ecologically and socially sustainable development has been disregarded.
Especially where co-operation between the Baltic States is concerned, the singling out of one country would have disastrous consequences, because that co-operation combines very close economic ties with a zone of freedom of movement.
Integration in the EU must not be restricted to a political elite - great importance must be attached to the full involvement of every citizen.
Mr President of the Commission, you mentioned this morning the speech you made on 17 January, on the occasion of your investiture, and I too venture to recall that day because we told you that we expected from you the vision of a better Europe, a Europe for the millennium.
It seems to me that that vision was somewhat lacking in Agenda 2000.
Admittedly, the Commission has a difficult task: it is being asked to undertake enlargement and reform and to move towards the year 2000 maintaining the same level of resources as fixed at Edinburgh, which may not exceed 1.27 % of gross national product.
The Agenda we shall be discussing has just one merit: that of proposing the Intergovernmental Conference by 2000.
We must have a long period of negotiation so we can extend the reforms required within the present fifteen Member States to meet the challenge of enlargement.
The proposals for the reform of the common agricultural policy and structural funds are far-reaching and will be extremely painful to many regions of the present European Union.
We must be careful during the enlargement process not to isolate regions presently in the Union.
I understand why we must move towards enlargement.
I shall now confine myself to commenting on two points of detail, partly because of the lack of time available, and partly also because I do not wish to comment on a document of over 1100 pages that we received only a few minutes ago and which is not even available in my own language.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, fellow Members, we have just heard the Commmission's presentation of the so-called Agenda 2000 which, it is claimed, together with the assessment of each application for membership of the Union, is a response to the petitions formulated by the Madrid European Council.
I, as a Spaniard - and one with a good memory who represents a country which for many years was knocking at the door of the Community - can perfectly understand the legitimate aspirations of each and every one of the candidate countries.
However, Mr President, we are concerned at the fact that, when such a politically ambitious and justified enlargement package is presented, sufficient and balanced financial provisions for funding it are not established.
When earlier Commissions presented the so-called 'Delors I and II packages' , in parallel with the ambitious objectives which were outlined, the Community was given the necessary resources to realize its legitimate ambitions.
As the Commission acknowledges in its communication, we are now facing the most significant enlargement process in the Community's history - from any viewpoint, be this geostrategic, political, economic or social.
And an attempt will be made to take up this important challenge, at the same time as continuing the economic and social cohesion policy and launching the new employment policy outlined in Amsterdam and guaranteeing continuity of the remaining Community policies without any increase in the Community budget and without modifying its income structure.
They would have us believe that all this can be financed without increasing the Community budget ceiling above 1.27 % - which applies currently - and, in addition, by establishing payment appropriations which are reduced, even for 1999, down from the 1.25 % provided for in the table we have been given to the 1.22 % provided for in 2006.
In actual fact, according to the proposal presented, the pre-accession strategy will be financed with ecu 500 million under heading 1 and ecu 1000 million under heading 2, amounts which will be raised to ecu 45, 000 million under heading 2 when the initial wave of accessions takes place from 2002 up to 2006.
In addition, a ceiling of 0.46 % of the Community GDP continues to be set on the total amount channelled towards regional policy, which, in relative terms, means a freeze on growth under this heading at 1999 levels.
This will have retrogressive consequences because a ceiling is being set on the growth of resources available for that policy which has the closest connection with the objective of economic and social cohesion - given that the number of applicant countries and regions competing for total funds whose growth has been frozen is on the increase - and because the greater part of aid under the pre-accession financing strategy is covered by heading 2 of the financial forecasts.
However, it should be remembered that, even under current forecasts, Objective 1 even now accounts for two thirds of total funds and the meaning of the word 'approximately' would have to be clarified because in no way should the percentage of Objective 1 be less than it is now.
It is my feeling that the Commission's position is in conflict with Article 3 F of the Treaty on European Union, which confirms the principle of sufficiency of means and, in addition, with the political positions which this House upheld at the time of the Oostlander, Bourlanges-Martin and Christodoulou reports of 30 November 1994, 17 May 1995 and 12 December 1996, respectively, all of which stated that enlargement should not compromise the solidarity of the Fifteen and that, as appropriate, the Community resources available to finance it should be increased.
These positive elements are the maintenance, in its current form, of the Cohesion Fund, which, we feel, enables the less privileged Member States to implement a development policy throughout their national territory; the intelligent way in which the objectives of the Structural Funds have been simplified - although transparent, simple and absolutely objective criteria governing eligibility of the zones will be required - and the simplification of management procedures which was widely requested by both social agents and by regional authorities.
I would like to end by thanking the Commission for its endeavours and for the work which the drafting of this proposal has undoubtedly required, and I trust that this House will, in the months to come, be capable of improving those aspects of this proposal to which we cannot give our full support, because the challenge we are facing is of unprecedented political significance and will require the best efforts of everyone here.
The proposal to effectively freeze the size of the European Union budget to 1.27 % of the European GDP means that there will have to be a cut in real terms in the size of the structural funds package available to encourage economic growth in the less developed regions of the present 15 Member States.
This would be a retrograde step which risks undermining the positive results now being achieved by the present programme of structural fund aid in some parts of the Union, such as Ireland, for example.
At present, the arbitrary cut-off point of 75 % of GDP does not take account of important factors such as unemployment and peripherality.
Some account needs to be taken of peripherality in order to ensure that industry will continue to create jobs in peripheral regions once the single currency zone has been created.
The Union must continue to take structural measures to encourage balanced development around the Union and to avoid a drift to the centre by mobile investment.
Before proposing any changes in the regions which qualify for the different rates of structural assistance, the Commission should also undertake an assessment of levels of economic growth within the region.
It would surely be wrong if an area which still meets the 75 % threshold failed to qualify for aid just because it is grouped together by the Commission with the most prosperous neighbouring area.
For example, the strong economic growth in the east coast region of my country is not necessarily reflected throughout all parts of the country, and the existence of uneven growth rates within a country and a region should be taken into account by the Commission.
Farmers must have guarantees of direct income supports at adequate levels over the medium to long term if they are to be in a position to plan for the future.
Increased production should only be contemplated in those sectors where a ready market can be found for the produce, and in this regard agriculture must prepare itself to meet the challenges of the world marketplace.
The best method of preparing the sector is to put in place a stable, long-term support system for our family farms.
Secondly, I am also worried by the fact that just a few weeks after Amsterdam, the Commission and its President have come here to tell us that we must proceed with a new review of the Treaties, in order to solve institutional issues.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, today sees us beginning to mark out and trace the path we will be following in the early years of the next millennium.
The ten richest regions continue to differ from the ten poorest in much the same way.
Finally, Mr President, we believe that it is risky to rely on agriculture to finance this enlargement because, as you and all of us will be aware, agriculture is an extremely risky business.
Mr President, Agenda 2000 is an impressive global vision, requiring all the political forces of Europe to be involved in the work that lies ahead - including those forces whose concept of a healthy, peaceful future for Europe differs, indeed differs very strongly, from the Commission's notion.
President Santer has said that the euro must be introduced as planned on 1 January 1999.
The question may be whether the euro can be introduced on 1 January 1999, against the will of many citizens, if the high aims of Agenda 2000, especially enlargement, are to be achieved.
I would like to add that the Press has hastened to describe Agenda 2000 as a document which will be for the coming 50 years what the Yalta agreement was for the years past.
Just as it is impossible not to take account of the criterion of unemployment in the Union's progress towards 2000, nor for the Structural Funds to bear the cost of enlargement.
Agenda 2000 finally puts the Second World War behind us.
That is particularly the case in the farming sector, where the Commission hardly shows any imagination since its proposals are largely based on the American model: i.e.
I know that the Commission has placed you in an awkward situation by distributing a 1350 page package on the morning of the debate - a document that lays the very foundations of Europe's architecture for the 21st century.
Both will clarify the aims that the Commission has set in the framework of its Agenda 2000.
Agenda 2000 is designed to created the necessary conditions in a changing world where Europe must, of course, also change.
Of course, enlargement must be integrated into it but we must also adapt to the international environment and play our rightful role in the international arena.
Yes, to some extent, because we have taken into account the fact of enlargement, and the implications of enlargement for certain policies, especially the structural funds and the CAP, but others too.
We have worked out a new financial framework for all internal policies that we have refocussed in order to meet the concerns of our citizens and to meet the challenges of 21st century Europe.
On the contrary.
We play our role, in the Commission, as a political institution, in this European political Union and we have accepted our own responsibilities as such.
It is thanks to the reforms undertaken in the financial framework that we have centred, regrouped, reorganized the structural funds to make them more efficient.
If you analyse the figures, you will see that through the structural funds the Member States will be receiving 15 % more in grants than at present.
The Commission has said so and Mr Van den Broek and I have been well understood - a whole negotiating process has been started and all the applicant States, without exception, are called on to become full members of the European Union.
That is why we have also set up certain structures to establish a genuine partnership for accession.
That is why we have called for a European conference to which all countries wishing to join the European Union are invited.
As far as human rights are concerned, a distinction cannot be made between Member States, as they are indivisible, and we have taken a very firm stance over this aspect, in keeping with the concerns of the European Parliament.
As far as the economy is concerned, however, and the fulfilment of certain criteria, while counting on the evolution of the various applicant countries in the future, in accordance with the findings of our own analyses, we have come to the conclusion that it is already possible, although none of the applicant countries fulfils the economic criteria at present, to open negotiations with some of them.
Of course, it is the European Council that has the last word, but we have taken our own responsibilities in the framework of the evolution of the international environment which concerns us.
For the first time for more than five hundred years we have the historic opportunity to reconcile our continent with itself, in peace and freedom.
This opportunity has to be seized.
Mr President, I think that Mr Van den Broek answered that question very clearly.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this document that we are debating today has already been hailed as a success by this House.
What was achieved, in fact, was an institutionalized communication on the second pillar, an institutionalized communication between the makers of our foreign policy and the activities of the Council in that second pillar, which had not previously been agreed or laid down.
If Parliament had not agreed, the Council would have made this an item of compulsory, rather than non-compulsory, expenditure.
At the same time it is very true that everything now depends on the way that the two institutions - the Council and the Commission - implement this: the Council by implementing this agreement in good faith and giving the necessary information, the Commission by really cooperating with Parliament to ensure transparency and democratic control.
We have always said that there is a procedural loophole in Article J.11.
Mr President, my group will be voting for this interinstitutional agreement because it has a sense of responsibility but it will do so with little enthusiasm.
We do not in fact believe that just those two little pages of the whole of the Amsterdam Treaty should be voted on so rapidly while the remainder of the treaty is so confused that the members of the European Council have themselves still to subscribe to it and will be doing so in October.
But the adoption of this agreement should not let us forget that we have lost in relation to the major challenge facing the Council, namely that of establishing a new form of classification for all expenditure under the budget, and that remains for us a central point in the discussion of the Amsterdam Treaty that we shall be holding in November.
It is a compromise adopted by the Member States in Amsterdam, whereas some of them were rightly opposed to CFSP expenditure being noncompulsory.
The two main groups in the European Parliament refused to express their opinion on this text even though they had two minutes each to do so.
We did have some debates in committee but we should not make this report into something more important than it is.
It enables the European Parliament to give its opinion in the coming weeks on anything to do with common security policy and Mr Samland, the rapporteur, has just brought our rules into line with the text, which is an important one.
The debate is closed.
Secondly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has not been consulted.
It should have issued its opinion at its meeting of 1 and 2 July, but the item was not even on the agenda.
No text was distributed at that meeting and no vote was held.
All three of his arguments are inaccurate!
Thirdly, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, the Committee on Institutional Affairs informed the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, in a letter dated 4 July 1997 and signed by its Chairman, that the Committee on Institutional Affairs approved this agreement.
The second line of each refers to different articles, for example: Article J17 and Article J18.
Madam President, the inter-institutional agreement on financing the CFSP, just precipitately approved by the European Parliament, seems totally irregular to us in terms of parliamentary procedure and in essence.
From the procedural point of view, we have decided in one morning to inscribe the item on the agenda, hold a guillotined debate and vote on it, without being able to table amendments, even on the motion for a legislative resolution.
That alone should have sufficed to reject this text if the European Parliament had a little dignity.
All of this has been so improvised that the agreement voted for refers to Article J18 of the Treaty, which does not exist as it has not yet been ratified.
It is so much the case that Article J18, that I have just mentioned, was called Article J17 in the only text of the Treaty in our possession, the one that emerged from the Amsterdam Council.
The procedure adopted was a simplified one.
Fifteen minutes were allowed and two minutes per Group, without realizing that that would not be enough.
The conditions in which the debate on the financing of the CFSP has just been held show, once again, how little respect most members of the European Parliament have for legal rules.
We also noticed that the Samland report won a favourable opinion in the Institutional Committee even though that item never figured on its agenda.
This inter-institutional agreement presents, may I remind you, like its predecessors, all the features of a 'legal monster' .
This is a genuine transfer of powers, de facto, since classifying financing of the CFSP as non-compulsory expenditure gives the European Parliament the last word and therefore in practice withdraws from the executives the genuine control over the European Union's CFSP.
The European Parliament has been able to keep its right of amendment on foreign policy expenditure only by promising to be good and obedient from now on.
The President of the European Parliament was forced, with a knife at his throat, to go cap in hand to the governments of the Member States.
The humiliation that Parliament is having to face in order to keep its right of amendment could at least have been spelt out in the explanatory statement of the Samland report which has been rushed through the Committee on Budgets and the plenary this week.
Rothley report (A4-0222/97) Madam President, because the points in the Rothley report that were important for agriculture all failed to secure a majority, I should like the Minutes to show that I intended to abstain in the final vote, including the modified vote on the report.
Mr President, I should like to welcome the vote that has just been held and which registered a substantial majority in favour of the Rothley report.
I welcome the quality of the debates held in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the vote which led to this majority.
On behalf of my Group, I regret that in Article 9 on the notion of public order and morality a sub-paragraph was adopted by the majority that seems to me to be clearly contrary to the legislation or practice of many Member States: I think that it will inevitably be rejected by the Council, in the framework of the likely procedure.
Madam President, we were right to reject the directive proposed to us back in 1995.
The text before us now is far more protective on the most vital point, concerning human life, human dignity, from the very beginning of life.
It seems to me - and the very terms of the report show this - that we need to give the matter further thought.
It is not only an ethics committee, at the summit of society, one might say, that we need, but we also need, I think, our young people and youth to be trained and educated - our future researchers in a few years' time, our future doctors, our future politicians - to be taught how to think properly about this aspect of life and about genetic manipulation.
Madam President, despite grave misgivings which I share with Mrs Schierhuber and Mrs Seillier, I voted in favour of the Rothley report because it contains important amendments regarding the protection of human life and, especially, human embryos.
I refer in particular to Amendments Nos 55 ba and 55 bb.
I would however like to give a very clear warning to the Council not to remove these key elements of the compromise, because many of us would then no longer feel able to vote in favour of this Directive, because these matters are really important.
After serious consideration we have decided to vote against the directive while certain proposals of fundamental importance do not have the support of the majority.
The Alleanza Nazionale is in favour of the directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions.
We would stress that the proposal for a directive is designed to eliminate the current legal uncertainty and prevent the risk of fragmentation resulting from the possibility of the national courts taking different decisions on issues of fundamental importance, on the basis of differing national legislation.
The 1973 European Patent Convention is not in fact able to dispel the legal uncertainty in the national legislation on patents and contains no clause that legally compels the Member States to harmonize the provisions of national law on patents.
This directive will bring into line the Convention and patent law in the biotechnology sector for 15 of the 18 signatory States.
What we are voting on here today is a set of rules to give the industry a chance to develop.
On the previous occasion when this Parliament rejected the original proposals before us, we had ethical concerns as regards patenting parts of the human body and the practical concern that farmers might be prevented from using seed produced on their own farms.
The first point: the proposal for a directive, in its arrangements, contains nothing on the fundamental principles we wish to respect: the obligation to protect the human being in its dignity and identity; guarantees for the respect of human beings' genetic integrity; the refusal to grant any patrimonial right liable to refer to the human body, its elements or its products; the free donation of elements of human bodies and its voluntary nature.
If these principles are not included in the directive, it is because it is limited to economic reforms linked to completion of the single market; in this framework, it is aimed at harmonizing the legal aspects of patent law but not to establish moral principles for which the European Union's institutions have no powers.
But not all European countries adopt exactly the same approach.
The second point is even more serious in my view: the text which we have been presented with cheerfully mixes medical and agricultural issues, so that many members of the European Parliament have the feeling that they are being forced into things.
In the second case, the population being targeted is very large - all consumers - so that the dissemination of any negative consequences runs the risk of not being dominated.
Authorizing the patentability of biotechnological inventions in one case or the other will not, therefore, by any means have the same effects; on one hand, we are trying to cure the sick and, on the other, on the contrary, we are opening the door to a dissemination on the market of genetically altered organisms, the final impact of which on the population as a whole is very poorly evaluated.
The Commission proposal does head in the right direction in this respect, specifying that the human body and its elements, in their natural state, cannot be patented.
The European Parliament has rightly achieved slightly more progress on this, by specifying that elements of the human body include the total or partial sequence of a gene.
I recognize that the vote on the directive for the legal protection of biotechnological inventions has been one of the most important that this Parliament has taken in many years.
The reason I voted in favour of the Rothley report was that after nearly a decade of drift on this important issue, I believed, along with the majority in this Parliament, that a stable legal framework for the patenting of biotechnological inventions is now necessary.
In economic terms a legal base for dealing with the process of patenting will improve investment and incentive in research.
In ethical terms, which is the overriding issue in our deliberations, I have strongly backed the amendment by Ian White which establishes an ethics committee before the establishment of the legal base.
Give this fact, the Rothley report is a pioneering initiative, making amendments to the directive that cover most of the moral and legal concerns of ordinary people.
We therefore had to strike a balance between rules to protect the economic exploitation of biotechnological inventions and ethical concerns that have rightly arisen.
Given the process of European integration and, particularly, within the context of the increasingly technology-based global society in which we move, the need for a Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions is obvious.
It is needed, firstly, to prevent legal fragmentation in a sphere as complex as this and in which Member States' patent law does not offer a precise response.
Secondly, it is needed because the legal security offered by a Directive will genuinely promote research, thereby guaranteeing that the European Union does not lose current impetus in this field of science and will ensure that we play a full part in the field in the XXI century.
I have received more lobbying over this report than over any other in my thirteen years in the European Parliament: from industry and trade unions, patient groups, church groups and environmental organizations.
The result of the vote on the Gene Patent Directive is a defeat for democracy, a disgrace to the European Parliament and a huge victory for the lobbyists from the biotechnological industry.
The Patent Directive will allow certain companies to gain a monopoly not only on a saleable biotechnological invention, but also on the discovery and knowledge of genetic cells and the relationships between them, including human cells, animals and plants.
The aim of the directive is not to improve existing patent regulations, but to introduce totally new principles for patenting which, deep down, have only one aim which is to serve the profit interests of the EU based biotechnological industry.
On 1 March 1995, after difficult and serious negotiations, we rejected a Directive on the patenting of biotechnological inventions.
I welcome the almost unanimous support in this Parliament for the Directive on the patenting of biotechnological inventions.
Our ethical and other considerations have been met in full by the Commission proposals and strengthened by amendments, acceptable to the vast majority of Members, tabled by my Group - the EPP Group.
Now is the time to legislate in this important area vital to European, including Irish, research and economic development.
I know there are lobby groups and others who are genuinely concerned that the application of this Directive will not be able to control and monitor research and industry in this area.
Harmonization should also not be an option, since experience clearly shows that it will not be possible to take account of national differences, traditions and attitudes.
Instead of creating EU legislation, the process of patent legislation should be strengthened through existing institutions, as laid down for example in the European patent convention.
I have voted for the Rothley report on patents for biological inventions.
It has, however, been necessary to consider the various options open to Parliament, and I have supported several amendments on the basis that, during first reading, we should include safeguards which could then be included in the second reading.
I have voted for the report because it is necessary to put in place a clear legal framework for the protection of intellectual property rights in the biotechnology field at European level.
When that same Parliament says no to a ban on the patenting of 'all use of genetic knowledge leading to the production of weapons intended for use on the anatomical, physiological or psychological system of individuals or specific population groups' (amendment proposal 93, the Green Group), then one becomes really afraid for the world and the future which the peoples of the EU will face - if the European Parliament is allowed to have their way.
I have voted against the report for the following reasons.
As far as animal or plant genes are concerned there is not even this vague connection with possible use.
I wish to put on record my decision to vote in favour of the Rothley report on the legal protection of biotechnology inventions.
Parliament has never been lobbied so remorselessly as it has been over months and years on this directive, and from all interested parties: the medical profession and societies, patient groups, environmental organizations, and animal welfare organizations.
There are many grey areas.
There is also, in my view, a very grave concern which has been expressed to me by the National Hereditary Breast Cancer Helpline, which is based in my constituency.
For that reason, I have voted for amendments in the first reading for safeguards which can be further considered in the second reading.
These concerns related to affordable medical research and treatment, animal welfare and the concerns for developing countries.
I am in favour of the setting-up of a bio-ethics committee to look at some of the grey areas while, at the same time, establishing through my positive vote for the directive, a clear framework for intellectual property rights in the biotechnology field.
Our GUE/NGL Group is not satisfied with the contents of the Rothley report because the modifications made to the original report were very minor, and therefore the most worrying aspects which led a majority of Members in this House to reject it are still there.
The reasons for our concern derive firstly from ethical considerations regarding the significance given to human dignity.
Despite the ambiguous wording, we feel that there is still potential for an impact on the embryo line and also a possibility of the cloning of human beings and the patenting of aspects or elements of human life, these being passed off as belonging to the category of gene therapy or the like.
The possibility of patenting the constituent natural elements of cooking practice, stock breeding, agriculture, therapy or the like seems to us a risky business, since, in addition to depriving peoples, societies or cultures of a customary right, it subjects them to subsequent unfair and intolerable - I might say immoral - economic demands.
Lastly, mention should be made of global biological considerations, given that there is a potential risk to the genetic biodiversity which is so essential for life on earth.
Unlike many other issues with an ethical dimension where the questions are either black or white, the issue of biotechnology has a large grey area.
When we discuss the principle of patenting biotechnologies, we are given plenty of examples to show us the interest of doing so.
These examples are mostly drawn from the human health sector (insulin production, gene therapy, etc).
Two years ago, our Group, along with a slim majority of members of the European Parliament, opposed the Commission's first proposal for a directive on patenting biotechnological inventions.
We know the consequences for this promising sector.
Concerning agriculture in particular, we must not only protect but also develop the principle of the 'farmer's privilege' .
This right must be extended to the whole animal production sector and not only cattle, as the Commission proposed.
Our Group on the whole can only support scientific progress enabling human health to be improved.
we shall therefore refuse to vote for nay principle of patenting a given human gene and, of course any part of the human body.
We were unable to support Amendment No 74 because it is worded in such a way as to exclude patent protection for, among other things, human proteins.
The truth about this vote is that Europe is approving a provision on patenting in the field of biotechnology because the United States and Japan have similar legislation.
The report of the European Parliament's Legal Affairs Committee covers the necessary powers.
Once again the 'all-round men' of the European Parliament are facing a very important problem for the future of the European Community and the well-being of its people and animals.
We must acknowledge that research developments in biotechnology are taking place faster and faster aborad without our being able to take direct action, in a field where biotechnological progress should be used to the benefit of present and future generations.
We also know that for Europeans, the respect of humans as individuals is a priority, that we must guarantee human dignity and, why not, animal dignity too, by avoiding however possible any attacks on the dignity of living beings by means of a failure to control biotechnological inventions.
We must therefore regulate and that is why I shall be voting in favour of the Rothley report.
Two years ago, the European Parliament rejected a Commission proposal on patenting biotechnological inventions.
In terms of vegetal matter, we favour the use of biotechnology to genetically improve seeds but we oppose removal or reduction of the 'farmer's privilege' .
As far as application of biotechnology in the human health field is concerned, we are in favour in principle, but of course we can only oppose, for ethnical reasons, issuing patents for a given human gene.
We perfectly understand the usefulness of the principle of patenting, enabling companies to expect a return on their investment in terms of research.
I voted against the Rothley report with some reluctance as I accept the need for a European legal framework for patents - all patents - and respect the extremely hard work put into the report by Mr Rothley and others.
The 'enclosure of knowledge' by corporations in the developing world will increase global inequality and may result in the privatisation of the developing world's genetic resources.
The future lies in biological farming, not biotechnology.
It worries us in particular that these procedures for safeguarding and developing biotechnological discoveries are being carried out in the name of competition and to ensure the free operation of the internal market.
Today we have a new Commission text which, in general terms, draws together our earlier concerns.
These ethical aspects have been given greater weight and further examination in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Indeed, the report by that Committee assures us that the ethical dimension is now an integral part of the text.
No one will be able to say that this Directive has not been sufficiently discussed in the European Parliament.
This is an example of fruitful work between the Commission and Parliament.
However, for certain political groups, the question is clearly not one of arriving at a consensus and producing a reasonable text, but one of systematically boycotting the Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions.
Patent law is not a new concept either in Europe or worldwide.
It forms part of the law of competence and has been implemented for many years.
We should not be misled: what we are dealing with here is harmonization of the laws of the different Member States.
Emphasis should be given to the importance of this sector to the future of medicinal products.
Of the 50 new medicinal products which come onto the market annually, between 10 and 15 are the fruits of biotechnological research.
We, as European parliamentarians, should help Europe develop stable and consensus-based legislation and it is my belief that, after all these years of discussing the topic, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has produced a balanced text which takes into account not only the future development of the biotechnology industry in Europe but also the ethical dimension deriving from it.
A directive which does not offer a certain legislative framework in line with current international agreements will lead the European biotechnology industry to a dead end in development terms.
Europe cannot fall behind in a sector which is in the full throes of development and which the Commission has acknowledged, in various texts, as being the major sector of the future.
The fact is that patent law gives absolute privileges to the firm which makes the highest bid, without taking proper account of the social consequences of this.
You are not alone, there are members from other States, but the Luxembourg presence is impressive.
Programme of the Luxembourg presidency The next item is the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on the Luxembourg presidency programme.
Mr President, given the members present I did wonder whether I should not give my speech in Luxemburgish.
But as I hope that many other members of the European Parliament will be joining us, I shall speak in one of the European Union's official languages.
Above all, I should emphasize that Europe is seen by our peoples as a collective undertaking, in whose management everyone takes part.
The fact that the national identity of the smallest Member State has not been called into question by over forty years of integration is seen by the citizens of the candidate countries as a reassuring element and, therefore, is important for the internal debates about accession.
The Presidency will have another priority, that of preparing the decisions that the Union will have to take next December on the subject of opening new negotiations with a view to enlargement of the Union.
The European Parliament was consulted this morning in respect of the Commission's opinion on the accession requests and presented with a detailed communication, called Agenda 2000, on the future of common policies, horizontal questions linked to enlargement and the future financial framework.
Agenda 2000 and its appendices come to over a thousand pages and it is undoubtedly the most substantial communication made by the Commission to the Council since the Community began.
This communication is extremely dense and well presented.
It also welcomes the fact that the Commission has clearly shouldered its responsibilities and is submitting to us a project characterized by exemplary farsightedness.
It is now for the Council, in particular, but also for the European Parliament, to examine the text attentively, as well as its implications and the recommendations contained in it.
For its part, the Luxembourg Presidency is determined to work upon this communication and its various related opinions without prejudging it, in all objectivity and in full transparency.
The European Council in Luxembourg will have to take a decision on that choice.
The Commission's communication is quite pertinent in reminding us that the enlargement process is part of a broader approach which demands that all the Member States dedicate themselves fully to it.
The Commission has offered us a number of guidelines for the future of the Union's policies, in particular the structural policy, the common agricultural policy, and the future financial framework of the Union.
As you know, the Amsterdam European Council called on the Council to draft a report on these questions in time for the Luxembourg European Council on 12 and 13 December.
The Presidency will take on that task in order to enable the European Council to take decisions relating to enlargement in full knowledge of the facts.
In our mind, this report should reflect all the sensitivities of the Member States, particularly those relating to the maintenance of Community solidarity and budgetary rigour.
While we want, of course, to contribute to the clarification of some of the fundamental guidelines, in particular those concerning the future financial framework of the Union, the common agricultural policy and the structural policies, the deadlines for decisions in this area are more remote.
To conclude that point, I should like to repeat that the Luxembourg Presidency will do all it can for the enlargement decision to be objective and inclusive.
The European Parliament can have its point of view heard throughout the process.
The citizens of Europe will, through you, have the right of expression in respect of this huge project and great ambition, that is the enlargement of our Union.
At the Amsterdam European Council, the Luxembourg Presidency received a mandate to convene an extraordinary meeting of the European Council.
This meeting will be concerned mainly with the examination of initiatives aimed at creating jobs in small firms, the new consultative group on competitiveness, the study of good practices in relation to Member States' employment policies and initiatives taken by the EIB to create jobs.
The Commission and the Council, in conjunction with the European Bank, should draft a report on the state of work in view of the special session of the European Council on jobs.
The Luxembourg Presidency has already started work on this project.
The only way to approach full employment in the medium term is to ensure strong growth in the coming years, growth that is sustainable and job-creative.
The Presidency has invited the Member States, the institutions and the social partners to take an active part in the discussions to pave the way for the Summit.
On this basis, the Commission and the Council will draft the joint report, as provided for in the new Title on employment in the Amsterdam Treaty, one part of the treaty which will be anticipated.
They are now part of our culture.
At the same time, the Presidency will ensure that the Council offers a binding legal framework for the agreement reached a few weeks ago between the European social partners on part-time work.
Of all the subjects that we shall be giving priority to over the coming six months, one is the social acquis in the context of enlargement.
Initially it means, in the framework of the structured dialogue, planned for 7 October next, forging very close contacts between the political leaders of the Member States and their counterparts in the countries of central and eastern Europe which wish to join the Union.
The Amsterdam European Council made some substantial, real progress with a view to completing EMU on 1 January 1999, the date set by the Treaty and which will be kept to.
The adoption of the stability and growth pact and the resolution on growth and employment guarantees the pursuit of healthy macro-economic and budgetary policies and the development of employment.
The euro's legal framework is now in place.
In accordance with the conclusions of the Amsterdam European Council, the Presidency is committed to a study of the effective application of Article 109.
The Luxembourg European Council will also be given a report on the ways of improving the coordination of economic policies.
This work will be carried out actively.
That is why work in the area of justice and internal affairs will be focused on implementing the action programme on organized crime, as enshrined by the European Council in Amsterdam.
The drugs problem calls for urgent action.
Its costs in human terms are huge.
That is why the Dublin European Council confirmed, as a priority, effective and coordinated action in the fight against drugs and their dependency.
The Presidency intends to pursue this action with determination, especially the multiannual programme aimed at exchanges of knowledge between the Member States on methods of research, information and measures targeting specific groups of the population.
Still on drugs, an evaluation report will be presented to the Luxembourg European Council on implementing the joint action on the harmonization of legislation and practices of judicial authorities and police and customs services.
The implementation of the joint action on synthetic drugs is high on our agenda.
In this context, we shall be launching a new initiative.
The Presidency intends to bring face to face those in charge of prevention and politicians in charge of repression.
The Luxembourg Presidency will also endeavour to give a boost to regional cooperation, in particular with South America, the Caribbean and Russia, and a structured dialogue with the associated countries and trans-Atlantic dialogue in the drugs area.
In the field of fighting corruption, a concrete follow-up will be given to the Commission's communication on an anti-corruption policy.
The need to strengthen the dynamics of the single market was precisely and firmly highlighted in the recent action plan on the internal market presented by the Commission at the initiative of Commissioner Monti.
That implementation should be phased in, in an overall perspective that will involve all of the three coming Presidencies.
It will be aimed at achieving, with the European Parliament's support, I hope, significant progress in terms of the main priority subjects pinpointed in the action plan.
In the latter field, apart from an expected proposal on the common tax system to be applied to the payment of interest and payments between companies and their subsidiaries in different Member States, special attention will be paid to the findings of the taxation policy group chaired by Commissioner Monti.
The Presidency expects a first list of areas subjected to harmonization and a code of good conduct to be drafted.
Changes to Articles 129 and 129A in the Amsterdam Treaty are considerable steps forward.
The bases of a new departure in terms of consumer protection and public health have been laid down.
There is obviously a link with the particular worries that gripped European public opinions in 1996 about what people now insist on calling the 'mad cow crisis' .
Thanks to the action of your ad hoc committee of inquiry, now taken up by your ad hoc committee responsible for monitoring recommendations on BSE, the elements for taking a new approach to food safety throughout the production and consumption chain have been identified.
For its part, the Commission has launched various measures and taken firm decisions designed to restore consumer confidence - and we are all consumers and citizens.
Apart from the practical decisions expected of it, the Council should have its voice heard in the context of this important discussion, which involves all the Union's institutions, as well as representatives of civil society and the interested economic sectors, farmers and processing industries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I cannot, in this speech, go into all the other areas of activity concerning the internal development of the European Union to which my colleagues in the Luxembourg Government are going to be dedicating all their energy.
In the written programme of the Luxembourg Presidency, which is available to you, you will find a very detailed presentation of the aims that we have set in these sectors.
On the other hand, the European Union should confirm its traditional action in favour of the less advanced countries.
We shall be paying particular attention to the preparation of a high-level meeting dedicated to the less-advanced countries in October and implementing the Council's conclusions on market access for these countries.
We shall rapidly put into practice the conclusions of the The Hague summit.
The Presidency will cooperate with its trans-Atlantic partners in searching for a solution to the conflicts in former Yugoslavia, the Middle East, Cyprus, central Africa and elsewhere.
In the field of justice and internal affairs, now of special importance in our trans-Atlantic relations, the Presidency will set up cooperation in the field of fighting terrorism, organized crime and international drugs trafficking.
The Presidency will attach great importance to the implementation of the conclusions of the Denver Summit between the European Union and Canada, in accordance with the declaration of a common policy and an action plan between the European Union and Canada.
I now come to the numerous crises where Europe is involved.
The situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina remains very worrying.
The Council has clearly recalled the approach to follow and has set the conditions for European aid.
September's municipal elections must be free and honest.
The international community is still awaiting the full implementation of the Gonzlez report on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The Belgrade authorities must ensure the respect of human rights in Kosovo and open dialogue on the definition of greater autonomy.
In Croatia, human and minority rights must be respected throughout the country.
In Albania, the European Union is making a vital contribution to the international effort to restore and rehabilitate the country.
The Presidency will continue that action.
The follow-up of the legislative elections at the end of June is an important step in the process of restoring Albania to a proper state.
The Presidency will act in conjunction with the OSCE, in particular, whose coordination efforts its supports, WEU and the Council of Europe.
A conference on economic assistance for Albania will be held shortly.
In the Middle East, the peace process is in a worrying stalemate.
The appeal made in Amsterdam by the European Union in favour of peace in the Middle East should pave the way for establishing a fair, lasting and global peace in the region.
The Presidency will endeavour, by means of the efforts of the European Union's special envoy, to encourage the Israeli and Palestinian leaderships to resume negotiations to make progress in applying the agreements already concluded and to relaunch talks on the final status.
Promoting human rights, democracy and a civil society is another priority, as well as the recovery of the economic and social situation of Palestinians.
In the context of the work on enlarging the European Union, the Presidency will also be preparing the opening of accession negotiations with Cyprus.
The association Council of 29 April last was a major step in relations between the European Union and Turkey.
We shall support the dynamism set in motion at that Council by encouraging further progress in questions likely to improve our relations with that country, in particular in the human rights field.
The development of political and economic links between the European Union and the Russian Federation is of primordial importance.
The second half of 1997 will probably see the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreements signed on 24 June 1994.
The Presidency will actively pursue the preparation of this important date for holding the first cooperation council with Russia.
A first summit this autumn in Kyiv between the European Union and Ukraine should also restate the importance of our relations with that country.
These should be intensified following the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement.
The holding of a first partnership and cooperation Council at ministerial level is planned.
The Union will not relax its efforts and will pursue all actions in favour of nuclear safety in Ukraine, as in other countries of eastern and central Europe, in respect in particular of conclusions reached in that context at the G8 Summit in Denver.
The continuous strengthening of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership is of particular importance for the Union's external policy.
The organisation of the second Conference of Industry Ministers in Marrakesh and a Conference of Environment Ministers in Helsinki should give that a fresh boost.
The Presidency will make its own contribution to the development of the social, cultural and human partnership by organizing in Luxembourg a conference on education, with the theme of the perception of others.
In Africa, the Presidency will support the stabilization, reconciliation and democratization process in the Great Lakes region, especially in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
It will act through the mission of the European Union's special envoy.
Constructive relations with the new authorities in the Republic should be established and developed in accordance with the progress made in the process.
The commitments made by President Kabila on holding elections, protecting refugees and holding inquiries into human rights violations should be honoured.
The Commission has committed itself to providing the Council by the end of October with a communication of a mainly political nature on adaptations to be made to the partnership that links the European Union to 70 partner States.
The Commission will then put before the Council a draft negotiation mandate with a view to renewing the privileged and exemplary framework of the Lom Convention.
The Presidency will work to deepen the Union's relations with the ASEAN countries, in accordance with the conclusions of the ministerial meeting held in Singapore in February and will start work on preparing for the ASEM Summit to be held in London in 1998.
The Presidency will also closely follow the process under way in Hong Kong, especially the respect of agreements and human rights and freedoms of the population.
The negotiation of new agreements and the implementation of bilateral and inter-regional agreements, signed in recent years, and the development and consolidation of already established political dialogues, are definite priorities in terms of the European Union's relations with Latin American countries.
In this context, the negotiation of a new agreement with Mexico and preparation to implement the second stage of our agreements with Mercosur and Chile will retain much of our attention.
Initial thoughts will be developed in preparation for a summit of heads of State and Governments due in the first half of 1998.
As for the relations with the European Parliament, the six-month Luxembourg Presidency will be particularly rich in major debates on the future of the European Union.
The Amsterdam Treaty made the institutional changes needed to make the decision-making process in the Union more efficient, more democratic and more transparent.
The European Parliament's role to fight and prevent crime has been strengthened: the Council will consult the European Parliament before adopting outline decisions, decisions or conventions on this matter and the European Parliament is entitled to make proposals for the procedure governing its own election to be based on common principles for all the Member States.
This Presidency will endeavour to ensure that this difficult debate will be held in a climate of solidarity that must underlie all relations between the Member States which share the same European ideal.
The Presidency will serve that ideal with commitment and devotion.
Mr President, your Presidency begins in the wake of the Amsterdam Summit.
Perhaps just now it is only a signal, but the Socialist Group welcomes it and intends to use the coming weeks and months to contribute to a new employment dynamic in Europe.
We wish to use in the most effective, most aggressive and most constructive way possible the opportunity of the next four months to act in favour of jobs.
The European Parliament's Committee on Employment, as you know, is busy drafting a report on, this issue.
The Socialist group has set up a task-force to tackle its own consultations.
Beyond those avenues, if we want this joint effort to succeed, we must reach a definite agreement - and I am pleased that you made a specific reference to this point, Mr President - to set up at European Union level a social and economic model to refer to.
In more practical terms, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Luxembourg Council must tell us what it intends to do for the decisions taken at the Luxembourg Summit on 20-22 November to be taken into account in the 1998 budget, whose first reading before the European Parliament is due on 21 November.
Mr President, the Luxembourg Presidency claims that it wants to prepare carefully and circumspectly the December European Council on enlargement.
The Socialist Group thinks that we should keep two conditions in mind throughout the process.
We want the European Union to remain a coherent political whole.
Secondly, and following on from the first condition, before any enlargement, we must reach an agreement on qualified majority voting if the European Union is to continue to take decisions in all fields.
The mad cow crisis is still creating scandals.
The European Union is in risk of having an institutional crisis in the Autumn unless the Council and Commission take consumer health protection seriously.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Socialist Group wants to be a critical and constructive partner of the Luxembourg Presidency.
We wish you good luck in this difficult but exciting task.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your first great challenge is the special summit on employment in November.
We shall also be assuming our responsibilities, and we are holding a PPE congress in Toulouse at the start of November.
I hope that I can bring together government leaders from our political family there.
In any event, preparations will be made for this summit by a special working party, in which our group will also be involved.
In my view, the success of the fight against unemployment depends on the combined efforts of the economies of the Member States.
We therefore say yes to greater competitiveness and yes to solutions that provide renewal, with initiative and the spirit of enterprise being allowed to flourish, but without the rigidity and bureaucratic obstacles that are a feature of planned economies.
That is why achieving the objectives of the monetary union and respecting the timetable for it are so closely bound up with an active employment policy in the Member States.
These will promote intra-Community trade and improve the economic structure of Europe.
Let us try instead to move things more in a Community direction, so that the common interest takes precedence over the mere totting-up of national interests.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, in the programme that you have set for your Presidency, you pick out three main events: the extraordinary Summit on Jobs, the enlargement process and pursuit of monetary preparations.
The extraordinary meeting of the European Council will probably be a test for your Presidency.
As for enlargement, if the Commission has presented us this morning with a statistical proposal on the applications, the Council would honour itself if it offered a political vision of enlargement.
Countries like Romania which, according to the Commission, now has democratic institutions whose stability for now seems to be guaranteed, but also Slovakia, which is at least as democratic as the others, need the political recognition of an examination of their applications.
Mr President, enlargement of the European Union to take in the countries of central and eastern Europe is an historic prospect which will give us the opportunity to eliminate the final sequels of Yalta.
The historic nature of this task calls on us, I think, to refrain from taking a grocer-shop approach to the cost of that enlargement.
In 1997, the price of responsibility is the one demanded of us, if we want to offer the countries of central and eastern Europe the legitimate right to take part in the construction of a new political and economic order, one of peace, justice and security in Europe.
Mr President-in-Office, you are exercising the Presidency on behalf of a Member State which, in the last century, understood that it was too small to meet alone every economic, political and security challenge.
Mr President, I would like to convey to Mr Poos, President-in-Office of the Council, a wish and two causes for concern.
The wish is that preparation for enlargement be successful at the December Council meeting.
However, in addition, I would like to present the following two concerns: the first of them, as all my colleagues have been mentioning, is the European Council on employment on 21 and 22 November in Luxembourg.
The Luxembourg presidency has taken on a huge responsibility.
We believe that, with this subordination to the criteria of the Stability Pact, it is very difficult to create jobs if there is no change in macro-economic policies.
The Commission's initial proposal is very restrictive and we are also very concerned that governments are tending towards a zero budget.
Together with other elements of the European Assembly for Full Employment, we shall be present at the summit in Luxembourg in order to present our demands.
I am quite proud, as a representative of a country with 400, 000 inhabitants, to welcome the Luxembourgish presidency team on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance in the European Parliament.
Mr Poos just referred to the action programme we have with Canada, which will be discussed this evening in Parliament.
Mr President, it has been said that the Intergovernmental Conference was called to prepare the EU for enlargement.
The Commission is now asking for a new Intergovernmental Conference in the year 2000 prior to a possible enlargement.
That will make sustainable economic development more difficult in the economies that are lagging behind.
The declarations on the environment are accompanied by abolition of the environmental guarantee contained in Article 100a(4) of the Treaty in favour of a dispensation procedure administered by the Commission.
We tend to have good Presidencies when the small countries are in charge.
Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Luxembourg presidency to a current problem in my country as regards the transposition into Belgian law of the Community directive of 19 December 1994 on voting rights for European citizens.
I would say first of all that this directive is an example - to my mind, at any rate - of undemocratic decision-making in Europe.
However, both the Maastricht Treaty and this binding directive itself were approved by a simple majority in my country.
This effective precedence of a European directive over the Belgian constitution therefore means in fact that any minister with a simple majority or any European Council of Ministers is able to change my country's constitution, which strikes me as unacceptable and undemocratic.
And this diversity means that a people has its own protected territory where its own culture is dominant, in which newcomers are welcome, but are expected to adapt.
If the Luxembourg presidency or the Commission, as has been announced, nevertheless takes steps to force it down the throat of my country, Flanders, they must be fully aware that a whole people, the Flemings, will then turn against this Europe, and that would be a pity.
We have the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference and we have the Agenda 2000 document in front of us today.
Both in their different ways point us in the direction of the enlargement of the European Union.
That enlargement is of tremendous significance, not just in a symbolic sense but in a very real sense as well.
Enlargement is important for these countries wanting to join the European Union, but important for us too, as existing Member States.
That will be of extreme important to everyone, not least the 18 million people who are unemployed in Europe today.
What I would like to see is, for example, recommendations on employability, on a more effective use of the Structural Funds, on enhancing competitiveness in the European Union, on promoting training and education, on coming forward about ways to promote moves from welfare into work, without in any way undermining the welfare state.
Mr President, the Luxembourg Presidency comes at a crucial moment for the development of the European Union.
Millions of Europeans without work, millions of young people without future prospects, are waiting for our responses.
Since the Essen Summit in 1994, Europe has regularly spoken about employment.
Europe alone cannot provide these practical solutions but it can stimulate, mobilize, guide and coordinate.
It can urge the Member States to apply initiatives for employment which have already been successful in other countries.
In brief, European can give back hope and trigger off national actions which alone can provide practical solutions to the problem of unemployment.
All of the heads of State must commit themselves personally to it; national parliaments should also make their contributions.
The other strong point of the Luxembourg Presidency will be preparation for enlargement.
It is true that our citizens are looking sceptically at the enlargement project.
Their doubts and fears must be taken seriously.
It must be explained to them that enlargement will be carried out thoughtfully, case by case, step by step, that it is necessary for the stability and peace of our continent and that in the long run it will have positive effects for everyone in economic and social terms.
Ordinary people's commitment to this historic project is vital.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, stimulating that understanding and that commitment is also a task for the Luxembourg Presidency and will be one of its major ones.
Luxembourg is a small country but on several occasions in the past it has demonstrated that it is capable of leading great presidencies.
Mr President, the Luxembourg Presidency promises to be lively but exciting.
The strongest of those contradictions is that pitting, more than ever, the requirements of social policy and employment against the financial straightjacket put in place by the current economic and monetary union.
Officially, this issue has been settled for five years but it is only now that our fellow citizens can practically verify the fact that these neo-liberal choices are quite simply incompatible with a social Europe.
Sweden, albeit a signatory, without any reservation, of the Maastricht Treaty, yesterday, now feels that the single currency project is uncertain and wavering and has decided not to join the Monetary Union in 1999.
In France, the Prime Minister himself announced that he would put to public opinion, when the time comes, the terms of the contradiction between social requirements and the march towards the euro, so that he can be helped in taking his decision.
For example, it was believed that reducing public expenditure in social areas would reduce deficits.
The instrument of monetary cooperation for such a policy should in our belief be one not of a single currency or in other words an alignment on the strongest currency with all of the economic and political consequences of such a decision, but on a European common currency, a genuine union of national currencies for cooperation.
This question is the following one: what can be done to change European construction in depth so that our fellow citizens can recognise themselves in it and can once again commit themselves to it?
That, in our view, is the great challenge facing us in the next six months.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are taking over the Presidency of the European Union at a difficult stage when you will have to help to solve vital problems for the future of the single currency which your predecessors failed to deal with and which they have only postponed and handed over to the following Presidency.
I would mention, on this score, the exact geometry of the countries taking part in the euro, the direction to be taken by the exchange policy, the possibility of an economic government for the euro and its position vis--vis the European Central Bank.
It is my personal view - but it is not the intention that you have manifested - that it would be wiser in accordance with Article 109 (4) of the Treaty that you ask the Council, by 1 January 1998, to set for the single currency another date of entry into effect than 1 January 1999.
That would then free the debate and focus it on questions of great importance for our future, in particular working out the monetary organization, the institutions and enlargement.
It is out of this web of misunderstandings between the European Union and its peoples that we want to escape and we hope, Mr President, that the Luxembourg Presidency will help us to do just that.
It would have been much better to bring those three countries, plus Slovenia and Romania, into the Western European Union, perhaps alongside their future accession to the European Union.
The decisions must also take effect immediately, which means that decisions will have to be taken at the summit which mean something the next day, not least in terms of national budgets.
Because it is all very well to say that employment is primarily a national issue, but responsibility must then be taken for it in the national budgets.
That is why I am so grateful to you for mentioning this matter in your speech.
Mr President, when summing up his presentation of Agenda 2000 this morning, Mr Santer said that our success will also be Europe's.
I do not want to insist on the main challenges of the Presidency which my colleagues have already amply commented on, but as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I would like to express our satisfaction at the Luxembourg Presidency's intentions on tax harmonization.
In the European Parliament, we have often heavily criticized my country over this matter.
I hope that the Luxembourg Presidency will be able to convince the European Parliament that, in order to bring an end to any unhealthy fiscal competition, its global approach is the right one.
I can, therefore, reassure my colleague Mr Friedrich.
My colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture have asked me to say that, given the state of affairs in respect of Agenda 2000, we expect the Luxembourg Presidency and, in particular, our friend, Fernand Boden, Minister for Agriculture, to pay a far more attentive respect to our position than the sorry fate reserved, for example, for 20 out of the 22 amendments in our report to save bee-keeping in Europe.
I know that the Luxembourg Presidency is aware of the new challenges which must be met in the future development of the common agricultural policy and that it intends to tackle them prudently, but also with vital determination for progress to be made.
Nor should farmers and wine producers be the main victims of enlargement: they are asking for no more subsidies but the right conditions in which to be able to produce responsibly, in terms of quality as well as quantity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must thank all of those who reacted on the spur of the moment to the presentation of the Luxembourg Presidency's programme for the next six months and I thank them wholeheartedly on behalf of the whole team of the Presidency for the encouragement that they have offered to the incoming Presidency.
I should like to reply briefly to three or four main themes which have cropped up in most of the speeches that we have just heard.
We also know that the summit must not become an illusion or a media festival without any follow-up.
That is why we have committed ourselves to a practical procedure for preparing the summit by mobilizing all energies in Europe for employment.
Over the next four months leading up to the Summit all the governments, all the social partners, experts, political parties and the European Parliament, will be mobilized to convey to us their suggestions to make this summit a success.
As for the subjects of the conference, the Summit must become a summit of European added value to national policies fighting unemployment, in other words we must consolidate the competitiveness of our undertakings responsible for job creation; we must speak again about lowering non-wage costs; we must speak again about eco-taxation; we must also mobilize hidden money for employment, beginning with our own institutions, the Community budget, the European Investment Bank, without forgetting national budgets, where the fight for jobs must receive priority attention.
Then we must review all of the good proposals already on the table, the Delors report, the Santer report on the creation of proximity employment.
In other words, no publicity operations but a practical aim, an employment Summit different from all other summits, which must set priority objectives in quantified terms for our Member States.
The second theme is the challenge of enlargement.
The effectiveness of our institutions relies on the way in which they take their decisions, the way in which they are organized.
The 15 existing Member States might, for certain areas of the Treaty, agree to more qualified majority voting and a reduction of the articles which are still governed by unanimity.
And if tomorrow we reopened the exercise of searching the Treaty from top to bottom and bottom to top in order to discover other articles where qualified majority might be introduced, we might find one or two further articles but the exercise really is not worth being attempted.
Let us therefore wait a few more years before we launch into a new operation.
That is the meaning of the institutional protocol attached to the Amsterdam Treaty which provides for the first five enlargements a purely mechanical adaption to the size of the Commission and the weighting of votes and which effectively provides for a new intergovernmental conference beyond five more members, where not only the size of the institutions but also their functioning including the question of qualified majority voting might again be evoked.
As for the need to avoid a new division in Europe, I agree with all of those who have emphasized this requirement.
The process of enlarging European Union must keep the door open to all candidate states, and it must reassert that they all have a vocation to join the European Union.
The Treaty has been formally decided upon by the President-in-Office of the European Council, the Dutch Prime Minister, Wim Kok, who reached a formal agreement with all delegations on the text.
To date we have had no European sanctions to deal with this but I do not exclude the possibility that this subject might be discussed at the Council of Ministers and that we might introduce such sanctions as exist, for example, in the stability pact just decided upon in Amsterdam vis--vis the single currency.
The Latin America summit is something that we have not yet begun to prepare in practice.
It has been emphasized that the Luxembourg Presidency will take place at a critical moment for the history of the European Union.
A critical moment also needs parliamentary criticism.
Thank you for your answer, Mr Poos.
The debate is closed.
Situation in Turkey and Northern Iraq The next item is the statement from the Council on the situation in Turkey and Northern Iraq.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say as an introduction that years come and go but certain elements of conflict remain.
Six years ago during the last Luxembourg Presidency I had the opportunity of holding talks with the European Parliament on the same subject of interest to us today and unfortunately it has to be admitted that the same problems remain.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that said, I should like to remind members of the European Parliament that the respect of human rights democracy in Turkey continues to be at the centre of the preoccupations of the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, I must also recall that at the meeting of the Association Council with Turkey held in Luxembourg on 29 April of this year, the European Union reasserted the principle of Turkey's eligibility to accession to the European Union, as stated by the Association Agreement dating back to 1963.
This principle also features in the Commission's Opinion which dates back to 1989 and which the Council has adopted.
Therefore, Turkey will be judged on the basis of the same standards and objective criteria as other candidates to accession.
At the same time the European Union has emphasized that pursuit of the strengthening of relations between the European Union and Turkey will rely on a certain number of objective factors, including a solution to the Kurdish question.
Fully aware of the extent of the problem facing Turkey in the south-east of the country, the European Union has nevertheless stressed that fighting terrorism must respect human rights and the rule of law.
It has also emphasized the rightful need for Turkey to honour its commitments as a member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
Mr President, I think that it would be premature to comment on the Commission's communication to the European Parliament and the Council on the subject of deepening the Customs Union, but I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Luxembourg Presidency will deal with this communication in the coming weeks and I am fully willing to come back to this question at your next part-session.
It is the same old responses from Turkey, the same old denials from Turkey and the same old promises from Turkey.
The emergency rule in the south-east of the country was first implemented on 19 July 1987, almost ten years ago to the day, in which time nearly 26 500 people have died.
This morning we heard the Commission say that it had adopted a communication on relations with Turkey.
I actually welcome the fact that Prime Minister Yilmaz was able to achieve, just four days ago, a relatively large majority in the Turkish Parliament, with the support of two social democratic parties.
It needs time to make its presence felt, to stabilize its parliamentary majority, based on social democratic and conservative support, to introduce a new electoral law, to guarantee freedom of opinion and to implement all those articles that have rightly been referred to in this House.
So it would be better not to hold this debate now but to postpone it until immediately after the summer recess.
I should like to urge the House to give a moderate opinion, one in which we have no need to disown the position we take, Mrs Roth, but one in which we recognize the opportunities the new government has and jointly endeavour to ensure that Parliament's influence is made to count here.
On this basis we should be able to adopt a sensible resolution and give the new government a chance.
What has happened in recent months cannot be passed over without comment because the risk, the danger we fear is that the parliamentary agreement that enabled confidence to be placed in the Ylmaz government could have involved deals with the armed forces - we hope this is not the case - giving them a free hand to operate, clearly violating human rights in the south-east of the country, in Kurdistan and Northern Iraq.
Mr President, Parliament is in fact very late in the day in discussing the situation in Turkey and northern Iraq.
Turkey has been occupying part of this neighbouring sovereign country for several months now, without very much criticism being heard.
I am pleased to say that the political instability seems to have been reduced with the arrival of the new government.
I can understand that the political instability has complicated the process of reform, but the everyday practices in Turkish prisons, the Turkish attitude towards the Kurds, the slow pace of constitutional reform and the immovable stance on Cyprus give my group no reason to review our policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we were talking earlier today about Agenda 2000 - about the future of Europe.
Turkey is not on the list of candidate countries for the European Union and the Turkish people have fully understood what that means.
I think that we are reproducing with Turkey what was scientifically constructed over ten years in Yugoslavia's case and which led to the disaster that we know only too well.
Mr President, it appears to me that the Commission's Agenda 2000 document, which has been received so favourably here this morning, has landed as a kind of bombshell in Turkey.
The option of membership remains open and relations can be developed further, but in political terms at any rate, a number of serious obstacles stand in the way of accession.
I welcome the fact that the positions of the Council, the Commission and Parliament with regard to Turkey have clearly moved towards each other in recent years.
When I now look at the texts on Cyprus, the Kurdish issue, democracy and human rights, and then at the declarations from the Association Council or the section in the Commission's Agenda 2000, it strikes me that our positions are gradually moving into line.
The political solution to the Kurdish problem and respect for human rights are conditions laid down most clearly for any kind of cooperation between Turkey and the European Union.
A short while ago the diplomatic representatives of Turkey to the European countries went to Ankara to discuss ways that Turkey might use to improve its public image in the European Union.
For it is a bad image, related to the findings of numerous international bodies concerning persistent violations of human rights, the oppression of 15 million Kurds who live in Turkey, lack of respect for the principles of international law, the continuing occupation of part of the Republic of Cyprus, and lack of the rule of law.
I too - like Parliament as a whole - have high hopes of this new government, Mr Langen.
But it must keep to everything that other candidates keep to - no more and no less!
We want to have Turkey with us in Europe.
Mr President, I should like briefly to reply to the speakers who have taken a position and thank them for their contribution, even though sometimes they have been very critical of the Presidency.
During that visit I also held talks with officials at the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I clearly explained to them the position not only of the European Union but also of the European Parliament.
Apart from that I should like to say, Mr President, that despite some disappointments and certain frustrations I think it is the duty of the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission to remain in a dialogue which I would qualify as critical, firm and constructive, with a new Turkish Government, while being very firm and refusing any ambiguity on the question of human rights and the respect of the rights of the Kurdish minority.
I should like to add, Mr President, that even though we should be careful and prudent we should also at the same time encourage by all the means at our disposal all Turkish democratic forces who want to promote democracy and the respect of human rights, but that in a practical way and not only in terms of words, words which have remained a dead letter for far too long.
Thank you very much, Mr Wohlfahrt.
I have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2).
The debate is closed.
Situation in Albania after the elections The next item is the presentation of statements from the Council and the Commission on the situation in Albania after the elections.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by way of introduction on the situation in Albania, I should like to sum up the facts.
I should emphasize that, following the collapse of civil order in Albania at the beginning of this year, the European Union played an active role to help Albania to restore political and economic stability, to restore internal security and promote democracy by proceeding to free and regular elections in the respect of international standards.
The Council also took the initiative in March to send an exploratory mission to Tirana which became the kernel of the consultative mission for Albania in the framework of the OSCE's coordination.
As you know, legislative elections were held on 29 June and 6 July and the Council committed the political parties and all Albanian citizens to taking part in the elections in a spirit of peace, discipline and conciliation.
The Council has also emphasized its future relations with the European Union and Albania and on the full restoration of democratic principles, respect of human rights and the rights of minorities and the application of healthy economic practices as well as the existence of cooperation links between Albania and its neighbours.
The Council accepts with satisfaction the general assessment according to which the legislative elections took place acceptably.
The Council emphasizes the important role played by the multinational protection force which helped to create a safe environment for the elections and the various missions by the international community in Albania.
The Council has also committed all political and trade union formations in Albania to pursue with determination a process of national reconciliation in order to overcome divisions within society and to increase confidence in the authorities.
The conditions of international aid will also depend on the pursuit of this process.
Against that background the Union is determined to pursue aid for Albania on the basis of its common position of 2 June and bearing in mind the principal of conditionality.
The European Union will act under its own responsibility but will cooperate closely with other international organizations in the framework of the OSCE's coordination.
The European Union intends to contribute to its establishment and is prepared to work out a series of practical measures with a view to demobilizing the armed groups and establishing a climate favourable for security.
The Union also appreciates Italy's proposal to organize on 31 July a conference of senior officials with the participation of Albanian officials.
This conference should lead to a ministerial meeting in Rome in September next.
In this context the Council expects the newly elected Albanian authorities and all sectors of Albanian society to work together with the international community for the stabilization, democratization and economic restoration of their country and abstaining from any activity running counter to those aims.
These joint efforts should lead to political and economic reforms which are needed and head in the direction of the respect of human rights and internationally accepted democratic standards.
An economic restoration strategy worked out by the World Bank will act as a framework for the country's economic and institutional reform.
On this basis the Council can envisage resuming the political dialogue begun with Albania back in 1992.
The cooperation agreements dating back to the same year will continue to serve as a framework for deepening the country's relations with the European Union.
We hope that a new government will be formed in Albania before the end of the month, which can then cooperate with the international community on what is called the common international agenda for Albania, the purpose of this being to set out what needs to be achieved in the short, medium and long term.
Actually, this House would have been fully entitled to be officially represented in the Troika, too, in the name of the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, the elections in Albania were necessary to allow that country a fresh start.
Of course the European Union must continue to help Albania.
Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, the elections in Albania were certainly an important step that needed to be taken - no-one is disputing that - a step in the slow and laborious process of reconstructing the country.
But let us consider what happened during those elections.
We hope that when, in the near future, it comes to the process of reconstruction, Europe will not continue with this low profile political suicide.
We also want to emphasise, in particular, that the multifaceted help which we now want the EU to give Albania is in harmony with Albania's development as a democratic constitutional state.
Mr President, I believe that, as was apparent to all of the international observers, despite the earlier doubts and concerns that were justified by the particular conditions and difficulties that existed in Albania, the elections have to be considered to have been acceptable, thanks also to the presence of the multinational protection force and large numbers of international observers.
But the fact that the elections took place and were recognized to be acceptable not only by the international observers but also by the political forces of Albania is only the first stage towards rebuilding democracy in Albania.
But the European Union needs also to cooperate with the new parliament and the new government; and resources need to be used not just to produce consumer goods for export but also to produce consumer goods for use within Albania itself, to secure lasting and sustainable development.
Mr President, I must thank the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Van den Broek for the information they have just given us on Albania.
Today following the elections which took place in conditions which were regarded as acceptable even though there were numerous incidents, I should like to insist on the following points.
The new authority is not yet in place.
The structures of a normal state do not exist.
The population is still over-armed.
In such a situation our responsibilities are still great.
I should express two wishes.
On the one hand, it seems vital that the European Union should resume rapidly its economic and financial aid to Albania without forgetting aid for democratization.
From this point of view I earnestly want the Commission to show more vigilance in the use of the funds which it is mobilizing.
The financial pyramid affair shows that strengthening controls would not be amiss.
We must improve our methods.
On the other hand, concerning the presence of the multinational protection force in Albania, I should like this force which has carried out remarkable work not to be withdrawn brutally, as foreseen by the Security Council mandate.
This force is due to leave Albania in mid-August.
Albania is a small country but it is a European country, geographically close to us all, and also situated in an extremely sensitive region.
For this purpose, I hope that the European Union will support the very practical and timely proposal just made by the former Chancellor of Austria, Mr Vranitzky, rapidly to set up a working group entrusted with coordinating the action of the various international organizations in Albania in order to avoid a dissipation of action and contradictions.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, I am happy that you have just approved this idea put forward by former Chancellor Vranitzky.
Thank you Mrs Lalumire.
Crisis broke out in Albania and the people were in revolt, weapons stores were pillaged and refugees were fleeing, but it was not until weeks later, as a result or a more or less isolated Italian initiative and after the UN had given prior authorization, that it was finally possible to send in a multinational force and restore a minimum of stability to the country.
If some people have been disappointed, I am sorry.
Today we face a challenge, one which will lead us to the decision, I hope, that joint action is needed in Albania so that political, social and economic conditions in that country can be substantially improved.
We must help Albania to deepen its democracy, this democracy in its infancy, to control and disarm the armed criminal groups, and to plan an economic programme which will help it advance in a new direction.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, the sequence of events shows that the decisions taken were the right ones.
Action was taken before the crisis could degenerate into a situation that would certainly have resulted in social disintegration as well as the collapse of the State.
It is, however, necessary that Europe and the parties that function within Parliament, as in other countries, should take care to avoid trying to establish spheres of influence, because one of the positive factors that produced this outcome was the impartial approach adopted.
Parliament called for joint measures, but only some countries agreed to act and so make an important contribution to resolving the crisis in Albania.
It is to be hoped that, in future, we shall see Europe united - in a programme of the kind described here and that has my support - and acting much more effectively and sensitively.
The President-in-Office and the Commissioner ought perhaps to take note of that agreement - reached at Sant'Egidio - which provides an important guideline for the future.
We must remember above all that Albania is not a poor country: the economic and social situation is bad only because the country has been impoverished by bad decisions, taken in both the distant and the more recent past.
Commissioner van den Broek, I want now to make a crucial point that we talked about before the elections: the monitoring of international intervention and aid.
The Presidency cannot silence Members of Parliament, but advises them when they have used up their allotted time.
The debate is closed.
In Spain, 30 % of the public are involved in voluntary activity of some kind.
Concerning practical measures taken in order to optimize the efforts of humanitarian organizations, the humanitarian aid regulation adopted in 1996 foresees, inter alia, the possibility of financing actions to strengthen the Community's coordination with international humanitarian organizations and institutions, as well as nongovernmental organizations and organizations representing them.
As far as the creation of a register of NGOs and humanitarian organizations is concerned able to distribute to the neediest products seized because of fraud, I can only point out to the European Parliament that the Council has not been referred to in respect of proposals along those lines made by the Commission.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your answer is an interesting one.
Secondly, to deal with a much more tangible aspect, the case often arises within the European Union that, for reasons of fraud, industrial forgery, etc., we destroy illegally produced goods.
Question No 3 by Mara Izquierdo Rojo (H-0481/97): Subject: Situation in Algeria How does the Council assess the current situation in Algeria?
As you know, the Council is very closely following developments in the domestic situation in Algeria.
The Council is satisfied with the holding of legislative elections on 5 June last.
The Union has taken note of the report by the joint observation mission which confirms that, despite certain noteworthy imperfections, the ballot took place in conditions which might be qualified as 'generally satisfactory' .
The relatively high turnout shows in our opinion the determination of the Algerian people to take its future in hand.
The Council feels that these elections are a step forward in the process of political reforms in the country.
It also hopes that the new multipartite assembly and the coalition government, with a large majority, will now be key actors in the process of reform towards building a democratic and violence-free society in Algeria.
The Council will very attentively follow the holding of the next round of votes, this time for municipal elections, due to be held in early autumn.
As far as bilateral relations are concerned, the Council hopes that the situation will enable a new EuroMediterranean agreement quickly to be concluded with Algeria.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your reply.
I think that it is in our interest to hold open dialogue with all the parties concerned in Algeria.
This release might represent a step forward in the difficult negotiations and along the difficult road towards a solution to the conflict which has already claimed far too many victims.
I think I already emphasized in my first reply to the question that these elections represented a first step.
Nonetheless that should not dissuade us from doing all we can on our side to open a positive and constructive dialogue which might finally lead to such democratic actions, without forgetting the very important fact that in any case parties which resort to violence and terrorism should not normally have a say in the matter.
All other democratic forces which accept the principles of democracy should be able to take part in the next elections in the country.
Question No 4 by John Iversen (H-0488/97): Subject: Burma Following the recent elections in the UK and France, has the Council changed its position on a joint boycott of trade with Burma?
As far as the situation in Burma is concerned, I should like to say that, on 29 April last, the Council decided to extend for a further six month period the administrative sanctions provided for in the European Union's common position on Burma adopted on 29 October 1996.
This decision was taken following the failure to make any progress domestically in the country, particularly concerning the human rights situation and the process of democratization in the country.
I can also confirm that the European Union is constantly vigilant vis--vis the situation in Burma and that it is looking at the question of the need for significant and rapid reforms with all of its international partners, the ASEAN states in particular, which it is asking to use all of its means of pressure at its disposal to influence the stance taken by the SLORC (State Law and Order Restoration Council).
Mention can be made in this regard of the final act of the Intergovernmental Conference on the status of churches according to national law.
Christianity is equally dominant in all Member States, and without Christianity there would be no Europe, but the relationship between State and Church has developed along very different lines in the various states.
I think you have answered your own question.
I can assure you that Luxembourg has no reservation in this respect.
Question No 6 by Felipe Camisn Asensio (H-0491/97): Subject: Road safety measures The Council has recently been paying increasing attention to road safety, and this interest has been manifested in a number of resolutions.
Mr President, in order to answer this question I would like to say first of all the Council did adopt during the meeting of 17 and 18 June 1997 conclusions on the subject of the Commission communication on promoting road safety in the European Union a programme for the period 1997 to 2001.
Having taken official note of this action programme presented by the Commission, the Council welcomed the fact that it provides for new common initiatives to define an integrated approach to road safety in the Community.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Transport Safety Council has presented to the Commission - and, I assume, also to the Council - its celebrated plan which includes the ambitious objective of reducing the number of road accident victims in the European Union from 45, 000 to 25, 000 a year by 2010.
Question No 7 by Patricia McKenna (H-0499/07) will not be called as the subject covered is already on the current agenda.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 104C of the Treaty setting up the European Community stipulates that when the Council decides that there is an excessive deficit, it makes recommendations to the Member State concerned so that it can bring an end to that situation within a given period.
On one hand, in order to be effective, such a recommendation cannot be limited to a simple reminder of the budgetary aim.
On the other hand, the Council always gives its opinion in sufficiently general terms in order to leave a certain amount of leeway for the Member States concerning their domestic priorities.
The text concerning Sweden, to which the two Members of the European Parliament refer, have not yet been the subject of a publication in accordance with Article 104C of the Treaty and in our view it respects that balance.
Furthermore, the Amsterdam European Council confirmed that healthy public finances are a necessary condition for strong and lasting growth which in itself generates jobs.
That was the first question.
There will also be fictitiously lower tax levels in countries where the social security system and its charges are not part of the public sector but are private instead.
Question No 9 by Arthur Newens (H-0503/97): Subject: Trade cooperation with Mexico Will the Council make a statement on the progress of trade and cooperation negotiations with Mexico?
I would like to apologize in advance because my reply might seem a little long, but I want to give you the necessary information which is available to us at this moment in time.
The only point which must still be cleared up concerns the arrangements and the starting points for negotiations on the liberalization of goods and services.
I should like therefore to emphasize some of the especially important aspects of the new agreements.
Both parties have agreed to establish a framework favourable to the development of the exchange of goods, services and investment, including by means of reciprocal and progressive liberalization, taking into account the sensitivity of certain products and in accordance with the relevant rules of the World Trade Organization.
Furthermore both parties are committed to set up, inter alia, cooperation in economic, scientific, industrial, educational, social, audiovisual, cultural and regional areas, and to create political dialogue, including certain institutional provisions.
Furthermore both agreements include, like all agreements concluded by the Community, clauses concerning the respect of democratic principles and human rights, regarded as a vital element of the agreements.
It should be emphasized that the liberalization of goods will only take place once the Council has given its opinion on the outcome of the overall negotiations and once the comprehensive agreement has been signed.
We believe that real progress on this will be of benefit to both our peoples.
I think that we are also trying to take account, in that the new generation agreements with Mexico, our horizontal human rights policy.
Question No 10 by Birgitta Ahlqvist (H-0506/97): Subject: Demise of democracy in Belarus President Lukashenka has dissolved the democratically elected parliament and installed a puppet parliament.
I should like to say that the Council is following with considerable concern the development of the situation in Belarus and has urged a joint effort in order to try to exercise its influence on the Belorussian authorities so that they restore full respect and practice the democratic principles accepted internationally.
On the basis of these findings the Council agreed in February 1997 that relations between the European Union and Belarus would be taken in a global approach, emphasising that the European Union did not wish to isolate the country and was still determined to continue the process enabling the country when the time comes to play a significant role within European structures.
The Council is also studying the consequences of this attitude for the European Union and the country in question.
It agreed that in the absence of positive measures by the Belarus authorities: a) the Member States of the European Union would not support Belarus' application to join the Council of Europe; b) the European Union would not proceed to the conclusion on the interim agreement nor a partnership agreement or cooperation agreement; c) bilateral contacts with Belarus at ministerial level would be the subject of a case by case assessment; d) technical assistance programmes instigated by the Community and its Member States would be reexamined, and assessed on the basis of the principle that they should serve the reform process.
Following the events surrounding the demonstrations in March 1997 and the wave of arrests of demonstrators and opposition members, in April 1997 the Council of Ministers adopted a declaration criticising the Belarus authorities and restated that cooperation between the European Union and Belarus could not continue unless convincing efforts were made to set up in Belarus a political system respecting internationally accepted standards in terms of human rights and political freedom.
It invited the Belarus authorities to translate into action their commitment to open consultations with the Thirteenth elected Supreme Soviet in order to achieve a fair equilibrium between the powers in the country.
I should also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the group held its first meeting in June this year and has not yet completed its work.
The Council will continue to follow the findings of this working group with particular attention as well as the development of the overall situation in the country.
The European Union's efforts complement and strengthen those made by the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
I do not think that was really a question.
I should like to give a joint answer to the questions put by Mrs McIntosh and Mr Crowley, both of which refer to the consequences of the abolition of duty free taxes in ports and airports, for journeys taking place within the European Union.
First of all I should like to point out the maintenance of duty free sales in intra-Community passenger traffic is contradiction with the existence of an internal market without borders.
If the Council, when adopting the directives establishing the abolition of tax frontiers in 1993 decided temporarily to prolong duty free taxes for intra-Community travel until 30 June 1999, it was precisely in order to avoid the social and regional problems which might have arisen from a sudden abolition of those sales.
Also, border controls are now worse between the United Kingdom and other countries because you have both Schengen and other non-Schengen countries.
Nevertheless I should like to recall once again that, when the directives abolishing tax frontiers were adopted, the Member States decided to delay their application until 1999.
Nonetheless I should also like to point out that the Council has been presented with a proposal aimed at extending beyond 30 June 1999 duty free sales on intra-Community travel.
It goes without saying that the Council will pay all the necessary attention to any proposals made by the Commission in this area.
I want to thank the President-in-Office for his response.
Following on from what he has said, Parliament has been told by the Commission that it cannot undertake any action because the Council has made a decision and has refused to alter that decision in any way.
In Ireland alone the ratio is about 74 % for those travelling within the Community and 26 % for those travelling outside.
I do not know whether everyone then asked the question, when adopting these directives, which I recall were adopted by the Council of Ministers in order to set up the necessary legislative framework for a proper functioning of the internal market.
Today, after three years of functioning, we have drawn the first conclusions from this and we can see that some provisions can still be improved so that the internal market can work properly.
Both this morning and this afternoon I think that we have spoken about many things also concerning the internal market, as well as the provisions which will be necessary for that internal market to work one hundred percent.
There are consequences which I admit sometimes are unfortunate but this is a fact that we have to get used to: if we have an internal market that means that we want to eliminate certain forms of competition which in terms of an internal market could, let us not forget, be unfair.
This question has been raised several times previously.
Mr President, employment is one of our main concerns and you can be quite sure that I am the last person not to be concerned about people losing their jobs: I think that is one thing which unites us in a question which may divide us.
I know very well that decisions have been taken, I would like to remind you, unanimously by the ECOFIN Council at that time to set up these arrangements as I describe them with a transitional period.
If you have any questions about the effects on tourism and other branches of our economic activities I think - and believe me it is not because I want to ask you a question - but I think that in this context the Commission is better prepared than I am to give you more satisfactory answers.
This increased awareness led our heads of state and government, at the recent Amsterdam European Council, to agree on including in a future treaty a protocol on the wellbeing of animals.
It also goes without saying that, since this is an aim which will in future be a full part of the treaty, all the Community institutions, including the Council, as well as the Member States, should take full account of requirements linked to the wellbeing of animals when working out and implementing Community policies for the fields of agriculture, transport, the internal market and research.
I am quite convinced that the European Parliament will make a precious contribution to the process of developing Community legislation in this matter.
I have to say this question was tabled in the first flush of joy after learning in the press about this rather unexpected inclusion of the protocol which many people in this House have been arguing for for such a long time but, I suspect, could hardly believe would actually happen.
In respect of his concerns about putting into practice various measures aimed at improving the fate of animals in various areas such as farming, transport, the internal market and research, I should like to say that any changes to existing legislation on this matter must, before being submitted to the Council, be the subject of a Commission proposal.
The European Union has persistently expressed its concern at the violent violations of human rights in the civil conflict in Sri Lanka.
The European Union has already made comments in the framework of political dialogue with Sri Lanka and is undertaking steps in the appropriate international bodies, in particular by means of declarations.
The Council recalls its declarations of 17 April 1997 welcoming the exchange of letters between the President of Sri Lanka and the head of the opposition, concerning a joint approach by both parties to the ethnic conflict in the country.
The European Union hopes that this agreement will help to restore confidence and bring an end to the policy of confrontation.
Rule 96(2) of the Rules of Procedure states that once the agenda has been approved, it may only be changed pursuant to Rules 97 and 128 to 132, or following a proposal by the President.
For this reason, the outcome of the recent elections, which many Members regard as satisfactory, must not lead the Council and the European Union in general to lower their guard.
The Council must, in particular, do everything necessary, appropriate and expedient to stabilize and democratize Albania, not least by means of economic aid conditional upon respect for human rights and the application of democratic principles in that unfortunate country.
Now, however, the difficulties to be faced by the new government are beginning.
Otherwise, there will be no political stability in the country.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
I should also add that our amendments concerning the creation of a data bank to promote coproductions, and for the creation of a dictionary database as a useful tool for translators, were adopted as well.
Yet, though in the case of the amendments I have just mentioned the negotiations, difficult as they were, led to success for our delegation, unfortunately the same cannot be said about the other two thorny issues that were the subject of conciliation with the Council.
I can do not more than express my sorrow and disappointment, not only because the duration of the programme was reduced to two years, 1997 and 1998, with a total budget of just 7 million ECU, but also because despite our persistent efforts the Council left us no margin for negotiation on that point.
I hope that in the next two years of its implementation, even with so small a budget, the Ariane programme will show what it can offer and I am sure that it will be renewed.
I hope that by then the members of the Council will have grasped the thread of their own Ariane, which will help them emerge from the labyrinth and acknowledge the importance of the European Union's civilization and cultural dimension.
The communication between European cultures through books and reading is being contemplated with a derisory amount of 7 million ECU for the years 1997-98.
The specific reference to cultural diversity that the Council introduced at Amsterdam in Article 128 confirms that.
Even research, another poor relation in the past, has now had its resources increased for the next budget, perhaps because it is more closely linked to industry, perhaps too much for the interests of my country.
Who would dare deny the vital importance of culture to express the European spirit, single yet diverse, to cement local and universal citizenship, to fight exclusion, to strengthen cohesion, to instigate new urban policies and last but not least to create new jobs?
Let us at least show the next generation that there is more to life than some of the books that are being produced and sold in all our airports.
It provides the basis upon which the Community can go further in its support in the fields of books and reading, and provides the opportunity for the Community to reflect on the long-term priorities and instruments in our cultural policy.
That is a significant increase on last year's pilot scheme where only 320 applications were received in all.
I can assure you on behalf of the Commission that we will try to ensure that the management of the programme is as effective and efficient as possible because with a financially limited programme it is all the more important that it should be properly run.
We hope that once again we can rely on the support of the European Parliament - and we know we can - in carrying out this task and laying the foundations for a more substantial, global programme in what I hope will be the not-too-distant future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating concerns the joint text, approved by the Conciliation Committee, relating to the free movement of doctors and the recognition of their qualifications.
I would remind the House that the Directive submitted to us by the Commission forms part of the long sequence of measures adopted since 1975 by the European institutions in an endeavour, step by step, to make this freedom of movement a reality.
At second reading, Mr President, three important points formed the subject of amendments by Parliament.
Those amendments were rejected by the Council, so that conciliation became inevitable.
The three points in question related to nationals of Member States who hold qualifications awarded by third countries, the role of the Advisory Committee on Medical Training, and the commitology procedures.
Well, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on those three points we can now see that the overall result was positive.
Incidentally, I am grateful to the Dutch presidency for its personal commitment to ensuring this favourable outcome.
Mr President, this is a problem we are going to have to resolve, within the more general framework of the system of mutual recognition of diplomas.
On the subject of the commitology, we have managed to find a very acceptable solution.
Finally, as regards the last point, it has now been specified that the Advisory Committee on Medical Training will send opinions and recommendations to the Commission and the Member States, which will allow that body, as we wished, to help to provide a comparatively high level of training for general practitioners and specialists in the Community.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the progress made with the conciliation procedure in general, which has enabled us, in quite a short time, to arrive at the results I have the honour to present this evening.
My group, however, had great difficulty in accepting the Directive, principally because acceptance took the form of a statement by the Commission without prior notification of Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 8 of the EC Treaty, Union citizenship confers upon every national of a Member State the right of freedom of movement and residence within the sovereign territory of the Member States.
I note with satisfaction that the conciliation committee, originally in the face of resistance from the Commission, persisted in its view that the Advisory Committee on Medical Training should have the right to make recommendations to the governments of the Member States and the Commission regarding the recognition of diplomas.
The recognition of diplomas acquired by EU citizens in third countries was also discussed in the conciliation committee.
The mobility of health service personnel, an innovation some 25 years ago, is now going to increase exponentially.
The adoption of the Directive, in accordance with the joint text, will enable the delicate balance to be struck between health requirements and the necessary consistency of medical practice within the European Union.
We are pleased at the prospect that our proposal will soon be adopted.
This will enable the lists of those diplomas in specialist medicine qualifying for automatic recognition to be updated through a much simplified legislative procedure and that in turn will greatly facilitate the free movement of doctors in the European Union, which is an important objective for us all.
When you think of the numerous changes that have occurred recently in the sphere of specialist medicine, the absolute necessity to update the lists on a regular basis becomes very clear.
I am not going to pretend that this directive solves that problem but I am glad that it was possible to achieve agreement in the course of the conciliation committee that a Commission statement would be added to the minutes of the committee concerning the ninth recital, saying that the Commission stresses that the need to establish the equivalence of diplomas awarded to doctors outside the European Union is one of the relevant problems to be tackled.
That does not amount to a solution to the problem but it amounts to a serious and formal recognition of the problem which at least is the first step towards working towards its solution.
I should like to thank the European Parliament and the Council for the great effort they have put into overcoming the difficulties which have presented themselves in this area and welcome this small but important step forward in achieving the much wider objective of the free movement of people, including professionals, to enable them, when properly qualified, to carry out their professions throughout the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
So at that level it has never been difficult to agree that we should be more environmentally friendly.
The difficult part is and has always been to translate the fine words into action.
After all it should not be forgotten that the objectives we are talking about were adopted jointly by the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament in 1992.
So now we hope that the Council will take inspiration from the European Parliament's proposals, not least because the environment has a very high priority with us and a large majority of the population in all the Member States.
And the environment really is an area in which the EU can deliver the goods and show positive results to the Union's citizens.
I hope that the Council will not miss that opportunity.
It was clear there that the Council is a driving force in global environmental policy.
Sustainable development is absolutely essential to our society and, ultimately, to the survival of mankind.
It puts great pressure on natural resources.
But, as we know, every journey starts with the first step, and the first step is called concrete action.
I will not go so far as to say that Parliament is the 'last action hero' , but we do see it as our task to put things in concrete terms and shift the focus to action.
I would say that sustainable growth, properly used, does create new jobs.
The rapporteur has introduced very sound and important amendments in all areas, which my group would like to support.
The energy sector, too, is very important.
The report adds some very useful aspects to the review of the fifth action programme, and it is going to be interesting to see whether the Commission will take these on board.
Amendments Nos 20 to 22 are three amendments which spell out ways in which we can get better observance of European Union law.
No doubt it is doing interesting and useful work, but it is not terribly useful to us.
Regarding Amendment No 25, we hope that the Commissioner will take on board this amendment because it contains ideas for drawing up environment plans for the applicant countries.
But the Commission's own studies have shown that there is no waste treatment option that is best for all materials in all Member States.
Admittedly, the results from New York are somewhat discouraging.
The results from Amsterdam also give a clear signal of our determination to move forward.
Furthermore, on Saturday 12 July, a dispatch from the European Agency fuelled our optimism by listing a whole package of measures adopted by the Commission to take account of environmental concerns in all Community policies.
Those aims reflect our concerns, our very legitimate concerns, regarding our responsibilities on this planet, which is not our personal inheritance but something we hold in trust for our children.
Mr President, I would like to join with the rest of my colleagues in congratulating the rapporteur for the work she has done.
In the very next paragraph, it is stated that there must be a 50 % reduction in the use of methyl bromide, leading to a complete ban by 2000.
We are seeking, it would appear, to change our priorities in terms of waste disposal every two or three years.
Later, we state that we are going to make a 50 % reduction in the number of vertebrates used for experimental purposes by 2000.
It is fundamentally concerned with the EU's credibility in environmental policy, its capacity to progress from fine words to action.
What makes the report even more interesting is that it also tries to correct some of the system errors within EU policy, where currently the EU sometimes actually makes environmental problems even worse.
We will be supporting all the proposals tabled in this report.
The rapporteur has brought vital aspects to this review which are worthy of our wholehearted support.
On the climate issue, the report proposes that greenhouse gases be reduced by 20 % by the year 2005, 30 % by the year 2010 and 50 % by the year 2030.
Prior to the Kyoto meeting on the climate, the Council of Ministers agreed a position of a 15 % reduction by the year 2010.
The PPE group's proposal is 20 % and this concentrates on carbon dioxide emissions.
That would mean that, for the first time, the Council would have to come to terms with criticism and rejection of its atomic policy.
Anyone who realizes that 34 % of all the electrical power consumed in the EU comes from atomic power stations - in France, the figure is 70 % - will appreciate that this is not an option.
If all environmentally aware Members, across party boundaries and across national boundaries, too, can find it in their hearts to vote together in tomorrow's vote, then we have a chance to get to the conciliation procedure.
The essential problem with the Fifth Action Programme is that many of the promises set out there have not been translated into action or legislation, mainly because of a lack of political will.
Since it is the Council in particular which has been responsible for the lack of action during recent years, it is very disappointing that it has not taken the trouble to consider Parliament's amendments from first reading.
Because of this institutional failing on the part of the Council, Parliament has no option but to retable most of the amendments from the first reading.
After our debate today, the Council will have a fresh opportunity to examine Parliament's amendments, and I hope that the two institutions can conclude the decision-making procedure on this proposal before the end of 1997.
The weakening of the proposal by the Council unfortunately is also in evidence in the context of environmental accountability, which is covered in Article 3.
Here I believe that the Commission and Parliament have a joint interest in giving environmental accountability a higher profile.
The aim of the proposal is to secure the more effective implementation of the Fifth Programme up to the year 2000.
The proposal therefore singles out the measures which should be given top priority for adoption at EU level in order to solve some of the outstanding problems.
Whether we can give effect to our wishes and keep our promises to the new Member States, of course, also depends on our sticking to a procedure under which we can be sure of being able to deal with the proposals within the timeframe available.
Mr President, Parliament's recommendation contains 38 amendments to the Council's common position.
The Commission can accept 16 of these amendments wholly, in part or in principle.
Unfortunately the Commission cannot accept the 24 other amendments, first and foremost for institutional reasons.
There is a need for increased political commitment and action at all levels, if we are to give effect to the overarching strategy and objectives of the Fifth Environmental Action Programme, geared to sustainable development.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, this report concerns the regulations governing the export of waste for recovery to countries outside the OECD.
There is, in fact, a strong link between this report and that on environmentally hazardous waste which we discussed recently.
It is this list primarily which this report addresses.
The Commission's proposal is based on allowing an export to take place if the country of destination has accepted it.
Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supported this line with some convincing arguments.
This should be perfectly possible within the framework of the additional proposals which this report contains.
The Commission bases its proposal on an obsolete list of wastes.
Then the Commission assumes that countries which have failed to reply to its proposal have simply forgotten to do so.
Why should we be in such a rush at this stage to become involved in a directive which is going to be obsolete anyway in six or nine months?
In Article 39 of the Lom Convention we laid down that no toxic or hazardous wastes must be exported to the ACP countries.
The revised version of the Basle Convention says that from 1 January 1998 any export of hazardous wastes outside the OECD countries is to be prohibited.
The environment's resistance has been greatly reduced by industrial activity both in the developed world and in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
It seems to me that there are a number of misapprehensions around on this issue and when the Commissioner replies I hope he will bring a breath of fresh air into all this.
They are all saying and I quote from one letter: The European Commission's proposal here with the Virgin report will ban the trade in used textiles.
That is not true and it would be extremely helpful if the Commissioner when he replies could confirm that the trade in used clothing between these Member States and third countries can go on where those countries have definitely indicated that they want to import them.
Secondly, the Commission's main problem is the very large number of countries which have simply not replied to the note verbale .
It fills a gap in the current regulations controlling the export of waste in the European Union.
In response to these approaches, I should like to make the following points.
There is no immediate or real danger of a ban being put into effect.
The Virgin report itself involves a cooperation procedure which will take months, or perhaps years if the Council does not get a move on.
The European Parliament has taken a very reasonable approach to this matter.
Even after that we will be working out a compromise at second reading with the Commission.
They respect the right of countries to make their own decision.
Nevertheless, it is worth saying that we have considerable respect for the work of the charities which approached us and for the work they do throughout the world to alleviate poverty and encourage economic development.
The proposed text should be considered against the background of Council Regulation 259/93.
The proposal which we are discussing today provides for specific rules on the export of non-hazardous or 'green list' wastes to countries that are not members of the OECD.
Article 17 of Council Regulation 259/93 has a provision whereby the Commission notifies non-OECD countries what the contents of the non-hazardous waste list are and then asks them whether they would accept the shipments of those wastes without recourse to a controlled procedure, or whether they would prefer a more stringent approach.
The Commission has sent letters to each one of the countries concerned and the current proposal takes full account of these replies.
That is the answer to Mrs Jackson's question.
The initial Commission proposal provided for the shipment of nonhazardous wastes being allowed in those circumstances.
For the first and third group - that is to say, the countries that had informed the Commission about their refusal to let the waste in and the countries that did not reply to the questionnaire - that export would now only be possible on the basis of explicit approval by the country concerned for each individual shipment on the basis of prior, informed consent.
Therefore, the procedure that is now proposed is that in each case of a consignment that is sent, the country concerned has the absolute right to say 'yes' or 'no' and has to give its explicit approval if the answer is 'yes' .
That seems to me not in any way paternalistic, but fully to respect the rights of the country to have a particular consignment in or not and assure that the wishes of the country concerned are respected where it has not given a general reply.
The answer is that it only has to write a letter saying it changes its mind - there is no elaborate procedure whatsoever - and the change of mind will be respected.
In each case, for each shipment, there has to be a prior approval by the country concerned of that shipment.
The objective of this proposal relates to trade relations with third countries.
The shipment authorization referred to in Article 15(7) is the equivalent of an export licence.
The surveillance system referred to in Article 17(2) is equally a classic instrument of that kind so that the proposal clearly falls within the remit of Article 113.
The fact that the trade relates to waste does not affect its legal base and is an ancillary aspect to the objective of the proposal, which is to regulate trade.
So the amendments that are accepted are very important ones - the second and the fifth ones - and ensure that if a country says 'no' , it will not be possible to export non-hazardous waste to that country.
If the country says 'yes' it will be possible.
If a country does not reply, each individual shipment will have to be approved.
Amendment No 4 on the review mechanism for countries who change their position, can also be accepted.
The Commission decided not to accept Amendments Nos 3 and 6, which relate to the countries that did not reply to the questionnaire.
We stick to our original position because a non-response from a country cannot be considered as an indication that a prohibition is sought any more than it could be considered that a consent is given.
The general principle of the green list of non-hazardous waste is that products included in it are subject to normal commercial transactions.
The current proposal includes the prior informed consent procedure whereby only when a positive response is received from the competent authority of the country concerned would any shipment be allowed to leave a Community port.
The Commission will also accept Amendment No 7.
The date of review should indeed be changed to 1998 to take account of the time that has lapsed since the text was drafted.
The Commission does not have any objection to Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10.
They all relate to the classification of wastes as hazardous or non-hazardous.
I believe that the main cause of controversy will now be dealt with in a way that should be acceptable to Parliament which allows the trade in such goods as second-hand goods to proceed unimpeded, which does not impose the view of the European Union on third countries, which allows them unequivocally to say 'no' , if that is what they want to say, and where they have not replied, allows them to give a view on each shipment before it is sent and ensures that view prevails.
Mr President, I have a question to ask Mr Virgin.
Therefore the country at the receiving end either says nothing, in which case it cannot be exported, or it says Yes, in which case it can, or it says No, in which case it cannot.
In all cases the wishes of the country concerned prevail.
I hope, therefore, that on reflection Mr Kreissl-Drfler will feel that we have reflected the principle he wants.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
Half an hour ago we were talking about the fifth environmental action programme, and one point that became very clear was that there is a need for new instruments to enable sustainable growth to be effectively achieved, in addition to environmental legislation.
I have held talks in various Member States, and I must say that - in the Netherlands, especially - these voluntary agreements have advanced to a stage where they do a great deal of good for the environment.
For years, the European Parliament and its Environment Committee have been trying to find and apply new instruments to advance the aims of environmental protection.
The European Union's environmental legislation will be an enormous stumbling-block when it comes to the future Member States taking on board the acquis communautaire .
If that is ensured, an agreement is a match for detailed legislation.
Mr President, Commissioner, environmental agreements in the European Community are one thing and environmental agreements at national level are another.
In the Netherlands there have been more than one hundred legally binding national agreements, dating back over many years.
The Commission has now tackled this subject.
All I know is that there are over 100 directives that my own country has not even implemented.
That must be made clearer in this report.
Parliament's motion for a resolution rightly stresses the need for both transparency and reliability.
The Commission recommendation is designed to ensure that future agreements meet these requirements.
Most of these points are also mentioned in the Resolution adopted by the Council on 19 June.
A major danger, or perhaps just a danger where environmental agreements are concerned, is that they can lead to what might be called privatization of environmental policy.
In its communication of 1996, the Commission clearly recognized the difficulties that arise when this instrument is applied on a Europe-wide basis.
On the other hand, we have already devised arrangements with industry which are giving results.
This would require that the Commission report on the results achieved and the experience gained, and that the reports in question be presented to Parliament.
Commissioner, you are recommending contractual, voluntary agreements.
My question is this: who at European level can conclude a contract with industry - even if there are only five sectors?
That was my question.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
UNGASS Planet Earth summit The next item is the debate on the statement by the Commission on the UNGASS Planet Earth summit in New York.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago heads of state and government from across the world gathered in New York for a Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly to assess progress towards sustainable development.
That meant of course progress achieved since the Rio Conference on Environment and Development in 1992.
The press gave a distinctly negative response to the general outcome, although the leading role of the EU was recognized.
To begin with, good results were achieved in the discussion of new subjects.
As pointed out by the European Parliament in its Resolution of last March, the Special Session offered a much needed opportunity to discuss new subjects.
The other was concerned with promoting the move to a more sustainable use of energy.
A second area in which we did not achieve our aims, but which some would nevertheless class as a partial success, is that of forests.
This was not possible as a result of strong opposition from the USA, Brazil and certain influential NGOs in particular.
Parliament's Resolution of 14 March states that both climate change and the financing of sustainable development are priority tasks.
With regard to climate change, the result was not encouraging, despite the efforts of the Union.
President Clinton's speech also contained some encouraging elements.
But the EU must now continue to put pressure on the USA and other parties, including Japan, which bears a heavy responsibility as host of the forthcoming Conference of Parties in Kyoto.
The EU proposed that the participants should make a commitment to a reversal of the trend in official development aid and that a procedure should be introduced at intergovernmental level to discuss innovative financing ideas.
These proposals were too ambitious for some and not ambitious enough for others.
To begin with, we have drawn up a good programme of work for the CSD for the next five years and have secured a decision on a new Rio+10 summit in the year 2002.
The Commission intends at the beginning of 1998 to present a communication to the Council and Parliament on the implementation by the Community of the results of the Special Session on progress with regard to sustainable development in the world as a whole.
Mr President, the five years that have passed since the well-meaning resolutions of the Rio Summit in 1992 have been characterized by a lack of commitment in the West to meet the challenges of climate change and environment and development.
Wealthy countries have not kept their promise to devote 0.7 % of their GDP to development aid and cooperation.
The crucial link between sustainable development and environmental protection is therefore still missing.
But the pitiful results of UNGASS, despite strong leadership from the European Union and, in particular, the new UK Government, highlighted the fact that on climate change, financing, water and forests, the gulf between the undertakings given in Rio and the steps to honour them is enormous.
We can pat ourselves on the back in Europe and say that our position at UNGASS was comparatively progressive in pushing for global protection and sustainable development, for a global tax on aviation fuel and our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15 % by the year 2010.
In attempting to build agreement on these issues, we have to put our own house in order in Europe and secure the involvement of the different actors in civil society in implementing sustainable development and environmental education both at home and in the South.
Our aspirations are fine but our efforts are insufficient.
The time to start work on these problems is now and we need a more committed political will from all our governments, our industries and our finance ministers than we have at the present time.
For one thing, the European Union really was a driving force in the negotiations, and although opinions may differ among the Member States the fact remains that we must acknowledge that the Commission and the Council presidency together steered the European Union in the right direction.
In New York, Clinton himself admitted that the Americans contribute only 4 % of the world's population but 20 % of its emissions of greenhouse gases, and that that must change.
We must take the opportunity that now exists, before Kyoto.
We must step up the pressure on Japan, and I believe that we should also look at the specific situation of the G 77.
One could argue about the exact wording, but the fact of the matter is that the AOSIS countries and a few ACP States, which are making an effort, played no part in the G 77 in New York, while large countries like China, and Saudi-Arabia too, pressurized the G 77 in the wrong direction.
Anyone who says that environmental protection, and climate protection in particular, involve reducing the quality of life and economic success, should consider this example: an acquaintance of mine worked in New York for a while, and he told me that in New York people wear sweaters in summer, because the air conditioning is too cold, and turn the fans on in winter because the heating is too hot.
I also think it positive that we obtained a decision to make sustainable energy part of the CSD's programme of work, and I call on the EU to play a leading role here.
It concerns a strengthening of the role of parliamentarians in the UN system as a whole and, in particular, a strengthening of cooperation between the various parliamentarians.
However, it proposed, at the New York Summit, that CO2 emissions would, at any rate, be reduced by 15 % by 2010, in contrast to the United States which not only proposes this but says that it is going to ask its citizens, that country being, as we all know, the most polluting country in the world: it has 4 % of the world's population and accounts for 24 % of CO2 emissions.
But we were not told whether financing has been proposed for this Agenda and for this timetable.
Mr President, I don't think it matters all that much whether the New York summit was better or worse than the Rio summit, or whether the action taken may have been better or worse.
In this case, the various parameters are clear enough.
If we look at the problem of biodiversity, the situation is not getting any better.
It seems that food production per head of the human race is diminishing; that drinking water resources per head of population are diminishing; that the north-south divide is widening; that the global temperature is still climbing and that, in general terms, the world we live in is even more unsustainable now than it was five years ago.
But I do pay tribute to the efforts of the European Commission and the European Union: it is true that, in relative terms, they have tried harder than other countries have.
Having said that, I must add that there is a considerable difference between adopting objectives - which is what the European Union has done - and appropriating the resources to achieve those objectives.
Calling for a convention is all well and good, but we could perfectly well take collective action within the European Union to promote sustainable forestry operations.
I believe a great deal still has to be done, including the preparations for Kyoto.
And, as I now read in English, ' problems remained, including unnegotiated paragraphs dealing with legal instruments and difficulties, mostly in the field, means of implementation, official development assistance, finance, mobilization of resources, etc.' Whereas production and consumption in the West have remained the same in this period, deforestation is continuing and support through development aid, as you yourself have said, is actually being reduced.
The total capital which public authorities across the world are currently investing in developing countries is declining, whereas the amount of investment in the private sector has increased sixfold in five years.
My comment is that it is patently obvious that we in the rich part of the world must improve our relationship with the G77 group of countries.
On that matter, I have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure .
