In fact only 1.3 million jobs have been lost.
Our group is in agreement with these objections, but as the two groups did not announce them at the Conference of Presidents, we have not been able to submit our group's resolutions on the same subject for review.
British Presidency and the situation in Algeria The next item is the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on the British Presidency's programme, and the situation in Algeria.
In the next six months our presidency will act as pilot both to economic and monetary union and to the enlargement process with the Central Europeans and Cyprus.
The British Presidency will work closely with the European Parliament to give both economic and monetary union and enlargement the best possible start.
When the new Labour Government in Britain was elected in May, we promised we would transform our relations with Europe.
The world has changed since the times of Monnet, Spaak and Schuman, but every change has made their vision of European cooperation more compelling than before.
The new British Government is committed to making a success of European cooperation, and our presidency will be an affirmation of this.
We want economic and monetary union to be a success.
Britain itself will not be in the first wave, but that does not mean that we have no interest in the success of monetary union.
Our economy is bound up in that of the continent and we have as much reason as any country of the continent to work for a successful launch.
We are also committed to making enlargement a success.
The Luxembourg Summit opened the road to enlargement.
During the British Presidency we will be launching the Accession Process for all applicants, as well as starting negotiations with those countries that want to join the European Union.
It is a process in which the European Parliament will have a crucial role to play.
It falls to our generation to have the great opportunity of finally ending that division by opening the doors of the European Union to the new democracies of central and eastern Europe.
That is why Britain itself will be assisting in providing training for some of the negotiators on the side of the Central European countries that are applying.
The inaugural meeting of the European Conference will be held on 12 March in London.
We also want it to be a substantive meeting, discussing issues that matter to all our peoples, both in the Member States and the candidate countries alike - on the environment, drugs and organized crime.
The prospect of Cyprus joining the European Union offers us the opportunity of contributing to peace and the prosperity of all of the people of that island.
The European Union firmly supports the United Nations SecretaryGeneral in his efforts to find a political solution on Cyprus.
We will also work hard to strengthen relations between the European Union and Turkey.
We have laid down criteria for all states wishing to join the European Union: the need for a market economy, democratic governance and observance of human rights.
Britain wants to reconnect the peoples of Europe with the European Union which their governments are trying to create.
To them the European Union sometimes seems to spend too much of its time discussing things that do not touch their lives: abstractions and theories, rather than a concrete agenda.
Three issues are of paramount concern to the people of Europe: employment, jobs and crime and the environment.
First, employment.
Over 18 million people are unemployed in the European Union.
That means one in ten of Europe's young people are without a job.
Our task must be to build in Europe a modern market economy but with just, inclusive societies.
The Jobs Summit in Luxembourg set an agenda for putting Europe back to work.
We will be working hard on the single market action plan approved in Amsterdam and, together with the Austrian Presidency, we aim to get it completed by the end of 1998.
The action plan gives us a full programme.
It is one of the most integrated of trades in Europe.
New means of cross-border communication such as the Internet offer tremendous new opportunities for access to information and freedom of expression.
The people of Europe want us to be serious in our duty to take care of the planet and to hand it on to our children in good order.
The European Union transport policy has a major impact on the environment.
We will be taking forward the proposals for higher standards on vehicle emissions to create a higher quality of clean air for our people.
The British Presidency comes at the same time as three important international projects on the environment: the follow-up to the Kyoto climate change talks, negotiations in the UN on providing clean water, and talks on managing the world's forests.
Kyoto proved that the European Union can be an impressive world leader on the environment.
The Agenda 2000 reforms proposed by the Commission make up an exciting programme to modernize the European Union.
The European Union has to change to meet the challenges posed by enlargement, but also the challenges from a changing world.
The common agricultural policy is perhaps the clearest example.
A common policy is no less relevant today but it needs modernization.
I know the strength of feeling on reform of the common agricultural policy, and the divergence of views about it.
A new agricultural policy that will still support our farmers, but at a lower cost to our taxpayers and at a lower cost to the consumer, preserving rural communities and also the rural environment.
I know there are many in the European Parliament who will want to see a shift in our policy so we can devote more of our resources to the areas most relevant to today's concerns. (Applause) We will use our presidency to work with you to ensure that our money is well spent.
The European Union can and should be a major player on the world stage.
We will implement the new European Union Joint Action on landmines, which reaffirms the Union's commitment to a complete global ban, and to its programme of landmine clearance and help for victims of landmines. (Applause) We will work for a coherent European approach to human rights, and make sure it has real impact by working in partnership and dialogue with other countries.
We will continue the Union's efforts to strengthen its relations with the rest of the world.
I will be travelling tomorrow to Washington and Ottawa to brief the US and Canada on our plans for the presidency.
During our presidency we will also aim to reach agreement on the European Union mandate for negotiations on a successor to the Lomé Convention.
Under our presidency the European Union will continue to work with our partners to help implement the peace agreements in Bosnia.
People across Europe are united in revulsion and horror by the stories they have read in the press from Algeria in recent weeks.
It is in the interests of the Algerian authorities to let the press see for themselves what is going on in their country and who is responsible for the terrorism.
The governments of the international community also have a legitimate interest.
We have learnt too often in the past that if we allow terrorism to take root in any one country, it can all too quickly be exported to other countries. (Applause) That is why the British Presidency readily took up the proposal to send a troika mission to Algeria.
In conclusion, I should like to say that in even a long speech one can only provide a snapshot of a programme for six months of a presidency.
It is an ambitious and full programme, a programme that demonstrates the Europe that Britain and the European Parliament want to see.
The European Parliament has a key role in that vision.
The British Government has been working to build up our links with Parliament - links that possibly were not kept at their strongest by the previous British government - and we have developed our presidency agenda in close consultation with yourself and with other Members of this European Parliament.
We want our presidency to ensure that you are given the best possible chance to play your important role in the crucial decisions ahead of us.
Yours will be an important voice in the debate on economic and monetary union.
The British Presidency is determined to engage in an equal dialogue with you in all these areas, from the plenary debates to your committee rooms.
But your role goes much wider than this.
I believe that the European Parliament has a crucial part to play in our mission of giving the European Union back to the people, in explaining the key issues to the people of Europe, in ensuring they have the chance to speak and that their voice is heard.
We will not always agree but I can assure you that your views will always be listened to.
As a British Labour MEP, I take delight in being able to welcome the first Labour Government Minister in this Chamber for over two decades. (Applause from the left) As leader of the Socialist Group in this House, I know that Socialists, Social Democrats - and some other Members of this House as well - were mightily relieved to see the back of the previous government which was most hostile to, most dishonest about and most obstructive in the European Union. (Applause from the left) On 4 May, just three days after the British general election, the Observer newspaper carried the headline 'Goodbye Xenophobia' .
The first positive message of the new government and from the President-in-Office in particular was towards the European Union.
The Foreign Secretary is very welcome here.
On 16 December 1992 at the conclusion of the last British Presidency my colleague and predecessor Jean-Pierre Cot addressed the then British Prime Minister and said: ' At the outset of the British Presidency, I looked forward confident in my belief that those traditional British characteristics of fair play and efficiency would make it a success' .
It will be no surprise to the Foreign Secretary or to this House that my group endorses the major policy priorities which he has outlined to us today as his plan of work for the next six months.
Colleagues in my group will deal with that agenda - jobs, drugs, the environment, the foreign affairs agenda, in detail during the course of the debate today.
I want to raise just two issues in particular.
We welcome the President-in-Office's commitment to open the process of enlargement in an inclusive and transparent way in March in London.
Similarly, the word is out that the reforms of both the common agricultural policy and the structural funds which you mentioned will simply not even begin until the end of this year when the German election is over.
The second issue I want to raise is a the decision which must be taken on the euro during the first few days of May of this year.
This Parliament, as the President-in-Office said, has a unique and very particular responsibility.
It is the only Parliament in Europe which can have a direct relationship with the European Central Bank and which already has a direct relationship with Ecofin.
This Parliament can exercise democratic control over the euro and the institutions which determine its success or otherwise.
The attitude of the British Presidency in supporting the right of this Parliament to give its view on the recommendations of Ecofin on which countries should be in the first wave of EMU has given a clear message of democratic commitment for which we are very grateful.
I think that during your presidency the support of the people will be a key element in the countries where the euro will be introduced, but also in the candidate countries, who finally want to belong to a community of free and democratic nations.
The European Community's decisions have never been as concrete and as influential in the daily life of our fellow citizens as they are now.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we know that the British tradition, permeated with its sense of democracy, attaches much value to the participation of everyone in big, collective decisions.
That is why it is paradoxical that your government has announced that it does not wish to belong to the first group of Member States who will introduce the euro.
Because once the euro is seen to be a strong, stable, attractive currency, your country will join as well, and contribute to its image.
Because, ladies and gentlemen, each new day confirms our conviction that, in defiance of scepticism and resistance, the euro will materialize.
This is a new opportunity to safeguard the standard of living of our people, and a new opportunity for the growth of our economy, an absolute condition for the creation of new jobs.
Common integration exists, the key to success for the European Community, giving priority to belonging to a strong unit which defends our interests in the outside world and at the same time sticks together internally, so that everyone feels involved.
This objective will only be achieved if it can be clearly demonstrated to the majority of people that the European Union is relevant to their day-to-day concerns and that the Union can contribute to finding solutions to the problems in our society.
Practically every night television news bulletins bring stories into our homes of more and more horrendous crimes being perpetrated by evil people, often against defenceless people in our society, such as young children or the very old.
Those of us who participated in the negotiations for the Maastricht Treaty had hoped that Europol would be the agency which would provide national authorities with the intelligence and information on money laundering, illegal drug production and smuggling, which they required to prosecute those responsible for the drugs being distributed to our communities.
Nonetheless, I warmly welcome the British Presidency's commitment to getting Europol established and its interest in promoting international efforts to tackle the illegal drugs business.
During the British Presidency decisions will be made concerning those countries which will be included in the first wave of participants in the single currency.
While I appreciate that Britain will not be one of these countries, it is nonetheless important that all countries, even those not participating in the single currency from day one, should be actively involved in the preparatory and planning phases for the launch of the euro because of the potential impact of this currency on all our economies, whether inside or outside the single currency zone.
A critically important aspect of the launch of the new currency will be the attitude of individual citizens to the euro.
The President-in-Office will recall the reticence, concern and even fearful response of many British and, indeed, Irish citizens to the decimalization of our respective currencies during the 1960s.
In the lead-in to decimalization the importance of establishing a high degree of consumer confidence was perhaps not fully understood.
It is vitally important that the European institutions, as well as national governments, undertake a comprehensive process of education amongst all sectors of the population and not just amongst the financial and business community, as seems to be mainly the case at present.
The work programme submitted by the presidency suggests that efforts will also be made over the next six months to make progress in the negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy.
The most important decision for the Union under the British Presidency is the one about the euro.
The presidency therefore has to conduct these negotiations with one hand tied behind its back.
Tony Blair wants to lead in Europe, but he cannot expect to lead from the sidelines.
I would like to ask the UK nonetheless to see to it that the Member States respect the Treaty when its appoints the first president of the European Central Bank.
Messing around with the Treaty on this point could damage its credibility even before it is launched.
Devaluation in Hong Kong or China, or a financial crisis in Japan would affect both America and Europe.
Of course, the Asian countries need to deregulate their economy and reform their financial sector, and the British Presidency should make this clear in the ASEAN countries and in Japan.
It is on this point above all that the British Presidency will be judged.
I support the intention expressed by the presidency to make the Union play an active role in the Middle East and Algeria.
Now that the Algerian government is not capable or not prepared to end the crimes against humanity in its country, the international community needs to consider seriously if it should set up an international criminal court for Algeria.
Obviously no country which violates human rights can join the Union.
But it is nonetheless in the interest of Europe to cooperate with Turkey on issues such as regional security and emigration.
In March 1995 the Association Council decided to deepen the political dialogue with Turkey.
The presidency must see to it that these decisions are finally implemented, and that financial cooperation is resumed.
Maybe it is not too late yet to prevent a war in Kosovo, but things are changing for the worse.
The international community should appoint a highly placed representative for the Kosovo issue.
Kosovo must be one of the priorities of the British Presidency.
My group is also asking for priority to be given to the arrest of war criminals in Bosnia.
The United Kingdom has an important military force in former Yugoslavia.
One of the ways to increase democratic control in the Union is by means of the introduction by the Council of a common electoral system based on proportional representation.
If our European citizens wish to have this system in 1999, then the necessary decisions must be taken no later than June this year.
I therefore trust the British government to agree with our wish that this important democratic reform is accomplished this year.
Mr President, my group wholeheartedly welcomes the objectives and words of the presidency.
In order to build a balanced, democratic and just Europe, we need to maintain the great objective of economic and social cohesion, and the aspiration to a Europe based not just on liberties, but also on great equality between north and south, east and west.
We need reform, but a reform which helps to provide more equal opportunities for the different countries and farmers of Europe.
If we want to fund enlargement and internal solidarity at the same time, we cannot agree with the Commission's approach in Agenda 2000.
The market should be transparent, but it should be subject to democratic values and the political and social rights of the people.
And to finish, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I want to say that we agree that there should be reasonable dialogue with Turkey, but from a European viewpoint, as you said.
Turkey has to fulfil the same criteria as the other countries.
We cannot accept a United States viewpoint, shaped by Turkey's importance in NATO.
Perhaps we may have slightly differing views about it, but we agree that the Troika should go there, and so should a major European Parliamentary delegation - not just to try to shed some light on what is happening, but also to promote dialogue between all those forces which condemn the terrorism and are prepared to develop an Algeria ruled by law.
For all these tasks - for a Europe based on democracy, solidarity, and also social aspects - you can count on the support of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen and the British Presidency of the Council, I pondered for a long time yesterday evening about what comes to mind when I think about the British Presidency, and then suddenly there it was in my head, and especially in my gut: rock-'n'-roll.
It is suffering from mass unemployment and a policy which talks about stability but is only concerned about money, a policy which is geared towards the euro but not towards European men and women.
They need equal opportunities to get work.
This must be the agenda for the British Presidency.
But transparency and openness do not mean big brother is watching you in the offices of friendly governments, nor do they mean Europol in my private life.
So I think that this is a great shame and I wonder if even yet it is not possible for the UK Government to change it's mind?
That really would help to solve the problems of small businesses and we should look to the very small businesses where real jobs can be created in great numbers.
That is a habit we must never take for granted. (Applause ) Mr President, I also welcome the President-in-Office here this morning.
I would simply say that the programme he has outlined here this morning is a very ambitious one and for my part I welcome it and I congratulate him.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the present United Kingdom Government on its enthusiasm.
I am concerned at the continued emphasis being placed on the role of the European Union in solving the problem of unemployment.
What we can achieve at European Union level is better support on training, especially in the area of our young unemployed, and the retraining of those who have been unfortunate in losing their employment.
We can also achieve more by sharing and pooling our achievements through our research and development programmes.
As the President-in-Office said, we are also entering into the crucial phase in the Agenda 2000 proposals.
More especially, there is the matter of the further reform of the common agricultural policy, which is in great turmoil, nowhere more so than in his own country, the United Kingdom.
On the same front, he must be positive in redressing the imbalance created by the strong pound and the fact that the UK Government has not applied for the support available to it in Brussels to enable it to alleviate the problem.
We must now persuade other countries outside the European Union to accept their responsibilities.
The President-in-Office has a tremendous challenge ahead of him.
Let us look at these questions a little more closely.
In reality, as the examples of Switzerland or Norway show, it is not the European Union that creates prosperity but a free economy.
The remedy for this situation is, however, already known.
I would like to restate that all these events started when the victors of the first round of the first free elections in that country for thirty years were imprisoned.
The British Labour Government has a clear, well thought-out agenda, as we have heard this morning, an agenda which is designed to make the essential link to the peoples' concerns and aspirations and European cooperation.
Also at the top of the agenda is job creation and if there is any issue weighing heavy on the people of Europe it is surely the fact that there are over 18 million people unemployed throughout the Union.
This is what is needed and I am sure that this is what the British Presidency will promote with vigour and with determination.
This means that we have to create a more effective single market, a market which, for example, embraces telecommunications and the energy sector.
Agenda 2000 is a good starting-point.
In a similar vein the presidency should be congratulated on its determination to improve the Union's common foreign and security policy, the emphasis which it is placing on agreeing an new negotiating mandate for the Lomé convention, and on its desire to give human rights the attention which is required.
In my experience the international menace of the drugs trade is undoubtedly one of those issues of greatest concern to the people of Europe and I for one warmly welcome your commitment, Foreign Secretary, to take up this fight in earnest.
At the end of the presidency the European Summit will be held in my constituency, in Cardiff, the capital city of Wales.
I am delighted that this will be the case and I am confident that at the end the presidency we will see a Europe which is more confident, a Europe which is more dynamic, a Europe which is more relevant and a Europe which once again has the full support of our people.
Although the Labour Party has changed its mind six times on our membership of the EU since we joined 25 years ago, for the last few years it has been fairly consistent.
I hope the UK Presidency will be a great success.
It is extraordinary that he should talk about bringing the European Parliament closer to the people when his government is about to impose a system of proportional representation on the United Kingdom which is, as I understand it - and we are still waiting to find the definition - a closed list system.
I should also like to say that the fact that two Members of the European Parliament have now to leave the Labour Party in order to speak freely, one sitting with the Communists and one with the Greens - one who told me this morning that he was expelled by fax - suggests to me that the control-freak tendencies of the Labour Party are now becoming known to people in Europe as a whole.
I would add that, since we are all concerned about candidate selection, quoting from the Conservative Party's own manual on candidate selection, it says: ' Edmund Burke's words still hold good today.
We have a moral duty to embrace the people of Eastern and Central Europe who lived under a cruel and alien tyranny for so long.
It will also be the six months of the start of the measures decided by the special Council on employment, six months in which the Member States must produce their plans of action for the Cardiff Council; we trust that British pragmatism will be able to banish dangerous demagogic solutions for achieving the urgent employment targets we have set ourselves.
I refer to those aspects of foreign and security policy which often find both our respective countries and our Community institutions unprepared.
The absence of the Union or its serious delay in dealing with problems like refugees, genocides, international tensions and conflicts in general, are no longer tolerable in a Europe which we want to have a strong and solid presence in the eyes of world public opinion.
The United Kingdom is neither a large state nor a small one.
The President-in-Office's speech offers hope that is the new United Kingdom approach.
If the Presidentin-Office wants to connect the people of Europe with the European Union, we must open the Council of Ministers to public scrutiny.
European Liberal Democrats welcome the UK Government's proposals to reform the electoral procedure in the UK to give us a House where all Members are elected on a common principle.
The code of conduct on arms exports of which the President-in-Office spoke sounds too much like codes of conduct everywhere which are observed mainly in the breach.
As Gladstone said, you must trust the people.
We are saying that the Troika must go to Algiers, that a delegation of the European Parliament must go to Algiers or Algeria, but to discuss what?
We must discuss the culture of democracy and the rule of Law, with Algerians, with the Algerian authorities, with Algerian political parties, with representatives of Algerian civil society who are opposed to a culture of violence.
If this is what we want, we must be clear enough to say that elections alone do not make a democracy, that democracy is a culture of freedom and a certain culture of power.
We must ask the Algerian authorities if a lack of freedom of the press, whether the right to publish is in the hands of the state or not, is part of their concept of democracy?
Is the lack of freedom, the lack of freedom in the prisons, the lack of freedom in some places, is this democracy?
Mr President, Robin Cook, there are good things in the presidency's programme on openness and quality in legislation, but the task - and the opposition - are so great that it will not succeed unless the presidency insists on new methods.
The biggest problem today has to do with the quality of EU legislation.
An EU law typically consists of a directive or a regulation and then a long list of unreadable amendments.
Thus, in order to continue a law would have to again... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, after listening to Mr Cook's statement - and I thank him for its clarity - I would like to be able to repeat what was affirmed recently by the British Prime Minister, Mr Blair, in an interview given to the Financial Times, namely that the British Presidency represents a great opportunity to demonstrate that the United Kingdom intends to play a constructive role in Europe and for Europe, and an opportunity to demonstrate that the agenda of economic reforms for monetary union is proceeding.
I want my good wishes to convey this message as well, in the hope that the United Kingdom will carry out a constructive role in this six months of presidency.
This constructive role emerges from the fixed priorities of the British Presidency and in particular from the hoped for success of economic and monetary union, from the start of an authentic Union foreign policy, from the struggle against organized crime and from the defence of the environment.
We are sensitive to this commitment for the definition of a common foreign policy and we give all our support to initiatives to end the Algerian carnage which tragically continues to strike tens of thousands of innocent victims.
The presidency will achieve much if it succeeds in seriously committing the Union against the expansion of fanatical and murderous fundamentalism and contributes to bringing peace to a friendly country linked to us by cultural, political and economic ties and establishing authentic values based on the defence of human rights.
The list of things to be done was long and has touched the various sectors of activity of the Union.
The second concerns the reform of the structural funds which should not negatively strike zones and regions already burdened by serious social problems resulting from structural situations and the economic crisis.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an Austrian - and indeed my country will be the successor of the British Presidency - I thank you Mr President-in-Office of the Council for your clear statements, for a people's Europe, a Europe which wants to draw nearer to its people and citizens and a Europe which treats jobs and the environment as priority issues.
But as a foreign policy speaker for my group, the PSE group, I would like to deal with two trouble spots close to us, but which affect us quite specifically in our own security interests.
This is not a question of interference, but the legitimate participation of Europe in the shaping of a collective environment, in the preservation of our inherent security interests.
The Middle East, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is certainly also a central element of your presidency.
This must be our objective wherever our money is used.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the European Union the spring of 1998 is of crucial significance.
The course is now being set for the third stage of economic and monetary union.
Central features of this are the question of the group of participants, the fixing of the exchange rates between the participating Member States and the personnel heading the European Central Bank.
On 25th March the European Commission and the European Monetary Institute will submit their reports on which Member States fulfil the stability criteria on the basis of the statistical data then available.
At its meeting on 1st May, on a Friday, after the bourses have closed, the Council of Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance will adopt a resolution on its recommendation as to which Member States should belong to the smaller grouping of the monetary union .
The final decision on the group of participants will then be taken in the afternoon of the same day at the meeting of the Heads of State and of Government of the European Union.
Since the Maastricht Treaty the European Parliament has been directly involved in personnel decisions relating to the appointment of the President, Vice-President and the other members of the managing board of the European Central Bank.
The Maastricht Treaty granted Parliament these rights, which were formulated according to the prototype of comparable rights of the Senate of the United States and which have no prototypes in the parliamentary tradition of Europe.
The envisaged hearing of the candidates will take place within the relevant committee of the European Parliament during the week from 11th to 14th May, and the European Parliament will probably put its opinion to the vote on 14th May.
This means that the managing board of the European Central Bank will be in place at the conclusion of the British Presidency and that the Central Bank will be able, as envisaged, to begin its work in the second half of the year.
This week four German professors appealed to the Federal Constitutional Court against monetary union with the objective of at least postponing it if not completely abandoning it.
The German Federal Constitutional Court could only make a negative decision about Germany's participation in the monetary union if the Heads of State and of Government were to be in violation of the Maastricht Treaty in their decision about the participating countries.
However, since all participating parties are determined to adhere to the Treaty in all its details, we need not be troubled by such legal actions; they will not be successful.
I would like to thank you for the new position you have adopted, but I should also say very clearly and very frankly that the British Euroscepticism has also helped Europe to reform in many ways.
However, it has also been easy to make the countries, even the weakest ones, accept all the principles and obligations of monetary union.
Finally, the common agricultural policy certainly has to be reformed, it certainly has to be modulated, but, for God's sake, Mr President, let's not sink to the depths of making junk food, which is what we are seeing in those countries which speak on behalf of consumers but do nothing for their health.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, like other groups, my group has already given its opinion on the content of the British Presidency's programme but I would also like to pass in review some of the points which seem to me significant.
I think that during the six months we will certainly have occasion to deal with our positions and have a dialogue on a subject which I think is very important, which cannot be taken lightly and which thus increasingly requires, in an increasingly integrated Europe, an increasingly single market, a coordinated approach at the European level.
But in my speech, Mr President, I want to touch on one single point, hoping that it can be received by you and hence it can constitute another front on which to measure, in a certain sense, the British Presidency, also because it is a subject which the European Parliament has very much at heart but on which I want to complement the British Presidency, in particular its government, for the position which it has already taken as a presidency.
I refer to the subject of the permanent criminal court, Mr President, a subject which is, as we know, in the negotiation stage at the United Nations and which this very year, at the end of the British Presidency, from 15 June to 17 July, will be the subject of an international diplomatic conference called in Rome and which must give life to the permanent criminal court.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a pamphlet entitled, "The Status of Monks' by Ibn Taymiyya.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ignorance about Islam is tragic.
In the 400 regions of my country I see the Tahl Zaatar that I knew in Beirut being created.
I want to raise the issues of economic and monetary union and economic coordination.
What we are very concerned about in this House is the accountability of the European Central Bank, the role after the establishment of the EMU of that Central Bank and indeed of the euro in general.
We are very concerned that the European Central Bank will be almost beyond the touch of the citizens of the European Union.
While the Maastricht Treaty enshrines the independence of the Central Bank, that does not mean it should be unaccountable to the people of the European Union.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he will engage in a dialogue with the European Parliament over the next six months to ensure that we have proper accountability of the European Central Bank and to ensure that the aims and objectives of economic and monetary union will promote the objective of employment within the European Union.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council on behalf of my group what steps can be taken during the British Presidency to ensure that it is a proper economic and monetary union.
It is essential that the British Presidency gives a great impetus to the campaign of informing citizens across the European Union that this is their project, not only the project of politicians, and that it is something important to their lives.
Therefore in conclusion could I also ask the President-in-Office to say something about the campaign that needs to be organized during the course of this year to make sure that the citizens understand the process of the EMU and realise that it is for the benefit of their lives and the future that this project is completed properly.
And in order to achieve that, in the realm of international economic relations, you have a weapon: giving the Commission the power to negotiate, as established in the old Article 113 of the Treaty.
You say you want to form a policy to combat drugs, because that is what people are concerned about.
The world has changed since the days of Monnet and Schuman you said, and that is true.
I should like to hear the British Presidency saying more about Europe as a political project, not just as a market project.
Mr President, Britain is assuming the Presidency of the Council at a very important time in the Union's history.
On the threshold of the new century, the European Union faces many other problems, but entertains many visions too.
The British Presidency takes office with the good wishes of us all, for the good of us all.
The first is the so-called third way in Europe: economic reform based on employability .
I am extremely satisfied with the fact that you wish to make more of Cardiff then a mere deadline .
But may I start by pointing out that Luxembourg truly meant a lot more than education, education, education, and EMU.
In the follow-up of Luxembourg, attention should first of all be paid to the design of balanced economic management in the Union, and the development of a coordinated European employment strategy, including taxation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, further to the comments already made by colleagues in my group, I should like to draw the attention of the presidency to some of the written resolutions of this Parliament in December, which are of great significance both to the Commission as well as the Council.
Secondly, we said that in view of the successful procedure for agricultural expenditure we anticipate that this procedure will be institutionalized and that we should have a discussion on this in March 1998 at the latest.
I should also like to say that in the resolution on the working programme of the Commission we urged that on the question of the legal basis we must finally come to an agreement between the institutions, and I think that the British Presidency of the Council should also devote itself to this tiresome subject.
Improvements are necessary with regard to the Agenda 2000, which the Parliament is also discussing: liberalization on the one hand, increased levies for European agriculture and at the same time a reduction of expenditure, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr President, concrete actions seem to be the leitmotif of British presidencies.
And what is the British Presidency going to do about this?
Mr Cook, you wish to be concrete, not abstract.
I am delighted that the President-in-Office has made a commitment to making the foreign security policy more effective.
And that, of course, is precisely what the Parliament has been trying to achieve with its hearing on Algeria and its intention to send a delegation to talk to parliamentarians in Algeria.
That I think shows that the Parliament, when addressing questions such as these and human rights issues in general, can play a responsible and effective role.
I would hope that the presidency would take advantage of this year, the 50th anniversary of the UN Declaration on Human Rights, to have a dialogue or trialogue with the Commission and Parliament to ensure that the European Union's policy on human rights has greater focus and coherence than it has had in the past.
I would also urge him to pay attention to two areas which are likely to be lost in the sound and fury of other debates.
Firstly, in former Yugoslavia we have a potentially explosive situation in Kosovo which appears to be deteriorating by the day.
I hope the presidency can take initiatives in that field.
Finally, I welcome the commitment to enlargement but I hope we can give attention to the European Conference because I believe it offers the opportunity for a genuine European political area which will allow us to develop dialogue with countries who are not yet ready to join the European Union or are negotiating, so that we can make them feel part of our family as soon as possible.
I recognize the commitments to Turkey and I hope that we can bring Turkey on board, provided it is prepared to accept the ambitions and vocation of the European Union in terms of enlargement, particularly in relation to Cyprus.
Ten seconds of this I will use to express my sincere hopes for the success of your six month presidency, and to acknowledge your efforts in making your country a greater part of European construction.
The first is regarding your very commendable concern to bring a united Europe closer.
The need to prioritize the issues to be resolved, and the right level of response to be provided, are more important than a Europe which, wishing to be one people, involves itself in everything on a daily basis.
Third observation: you judge very harshly the common agricultural policy.
This means that, faced with globalization, which brings more advantages than disadvantages but whose logic leads, all the same, to standardization, you are in agreement that a project of civilisation should be built, a truly European project.
Do not forget that one of the pieces of this project is a certain concept of agriculture, of rural development and of the environment.
Fourth and last observation: in European construction, each one of the great European nations brings its historic experience.
Mr Presidentin-Office of the Council, developments over the last few weeks concerning asylum policy in the European Union are causing us great concern.
In reality this involves a few hundred people who are guarded by the Italian police and strictly controlled by the Italian authorities, and whose asylum cases are being conducted strictly according to legal and statutory regulations subject to the most stringent control and without freedom of movement.
Nor do we have any right of immigration in the European Union, which leads to the right of asylum constantly becoming the criterion for immigration and ultimately lowering acceptance of a basic right, namely the basic right to asylum.
The events of recent weeks show that this must be brought forward.
Since 1979 the governments of Margaret Thatcher and John Major have done everything to stop European social developments.
This led to a lopsided development of the Union, and at a certain point to unacceptable discrimination against employees in Europe.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have clearly underlined that you would like to make a success of EMU.
For the people, EMU will be a success if, likewise, a social Union is developed.
The call for a more social Europe seems just a faint echo.
Social urgency which will play a part, when we are discussing the third phase of EMU, when we are discussing accession negotiations, when we are discussing taxes and especially when we are discussing employment, which should not merely be training, but also giving people jobs through transeuropean networks, community services, environmental investments, and so on.
When I see the Commissioner for Transport nodding, at the same time I also applaud the fact that you link transport and environmental policy, because these are important spheres.
Of course I will say something about this.
No civilized country and no union of civilized countries can be complacent or tolerant of organized crime, and the citizens of the European Union, in our view, have a right to expect the strongest action at a European level.
Therefore, as a group, we expressed unanimous and vigorous opposition to the proposals in the d'Ancona report to provide for the legalization of cannabis and the freer supply of all drugs under prescription.
If time had allowed, I would have expanded on this aspect but time does not apparently allow.
Furthermore, my group also supports and encourages the presidency's objectives of promoting police and customs cooperation against drugs, of finalizing the establishment of a Europol with real powers and resources, and of cutting the supply routes of drugs into the European Union.
Our message to the Council is that it is not enough to put the right policies and organizations in place: policies and organizations must be supported, coordinated and well-resourced.
This is another area where the presidency should be more active, ahead of the incorporation of the Schengen agreement into the European Union.
Mr President, in the six months of the British Presidency of the Union, a series of important decisions will have to be taken as regards cooperation with developing countries.
As well as the specific dossiers on which the Council must decide, it seems to me that there is an essential question on which it will be necessary to concentrate attention, that is the definition of the negotiating mandate of the Commission on the future of relations with the ACP countries.
This House has already said that it would be appropriate to have, after the year 2000, a fifth Lomé Agreement.
The objective is that of human development, participatory and sustainable, giving force to the growth of civil society and human resources in all the southern countries of the world.
Even up to today some parts of our cooperation have had to beat a retreat faced with the supremacy of other strong interests.
The Council must pronounce itself on the new banana regulation which, as far as we know, threatens to penalize severely some of the traditional banana supplier ACP countries, particularly Somalia.
It will be necessary to avoid this situation and make it possible to guarantee that such countries can remain in the Community banana group.
In general, what needs to be reconstructed is a capacity, which only the European Union can have, of developing a political dialogue and a "strategic alliance' with our developing country partners to be able face up to the challenges of globalization together.
Earlier, when you were talking of the initiatives for Algeria, you did not note that the European Parliament was the first to react to the situation in that country.
For 48 hours we undertook an examination of the hostile forces, in conditions which were, however, calm and healthy, and we have been waiting for several weeks to be able to go to Algeria.
Amidst the pity and overall compassion, at a time when the massacres are causing worldwide emotion, I believe it is time to recognize that Parliament has been the only institution which, for months, has demonstrated its horror, but we would today like... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, as our group leader has already said, we know very well that the Agenda 2000 debate on on the subjects of the CAP will take us into the second half of the year, partly too because there will be elections in Germany.
Our group held a conference on the future of the common agricultural policy on 13 and 14 November.
We are concerned by the times, because since 1995, when the strategy paper on the future of the CAP was adopted in Barcelona by the European Commission, unfortunately we are still at general statements, perhaps too general and generic, on the European agricultural model.
These are in fact the three basic issues.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Algeria is a very ill country, whose illness has not been diagnosed, making it very difficult to treat at the moment.
The European Union should collaborate and cooperate towards this objective, lending all the necessary material, political and diplomatic assistance which the Algerian Government may request.
Algeria, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is not just a producer of gas and oil.
It is a Mediterranean country with great human potential, which is asking for privileged relations with the European Union.
The European Union and the Algerian Government should reflect jointly (within the scope of their respective institutions and powers, and with absolute respect for them) on the solution to a conflict with extremely serious repercussions for the peace, stability and development of the peoples of the Mediterranean. (Applause from the Group of the European People's Party) Mr President, the President-in-Office uplifted us this morning.
This research contributes practically and effectively to all the priorities he mentioned this morning: jobs through innovation; combating crime through IT and helping the environment with new forms of energy.
The UK has a delicate and difficult task next month and in the following months.
The President-in-Office must get a common decision on the Fifth Framework Programme.
There is urgency too - this new programme must start in 1999.
A lot of very valuable points have been made.
As yet I have not come to an explanation of the principle but I am sure I will grasp it during the next six months.
Much as I would wish, I cannot attempt to go back through each of the 37 contributions, all of which were equally interesting.
So, I shall try to summarize what has been said and my response to it.
My starting point must be that, as I understand the discussion I have been listening to, my opening remarks got a pass mark.
I even took as an endorsement the remarks that our presidency programme reminded one Member of rock and roll.
If we want to restore legitimacy to the European project among our peoples we have to make sure that we demonstrate how that project is relevant to the lives of our peoples.
We have a scheme to send some of our young people from Britain around Europe as ambassadors for a day.
I am pleased to say that some of my opposite numbers, such as Klaus Kinkel, have agreed to take a British student with them for a day as ambassador for a day.
I will be watching very closely how well they do because we are always on the look-out for another good ambassador! (Laughter) When we go to Cardiff - which, as Wayne David rightly said, will be a very important occasion for Europe, for Britain but also for Wales - we are also going to host an alternative summit of non-governmental organizations and others, who will be meeting for two days on the eve of the formal summit, so that they can among themselves explore the themes of a people's Europe and subsequently make their recommendations and conclusions available to the Heads of Government summit which follows.
The prevalence of drugs in our society threatens to corrupt parts of our civil society and all of us have an interest in making sure that we contain that drugs threat.
As part of that general programme of promoting security and stability, I hope that in this presidency we will achieve that agreement on a code of conduct and arms licences for arms exports which a number of people referred to, so that we can have in Europe one clear, firm, common standard on the export of arms and so that none of the countries of Europe find that they take a stand on an issue of human rights only to be undercut by a partner.
Let us make sure that we confront this very important issue together and have one common standard on human rights and on arms exports. (Applause) It would be right to say that one of the other most frequent themes of the contributions was the worrying and deeply disturbing situation in Algeria.
I hope that mission will be there in time to report to the General Affairs Council on 26 January and that, from there, we will be able to take forward whatever concrete and specific steps Europe can take to end the terrorism.
In the meantime, since I have been rebuked on this point in my opening address, let me say that I fully understand the welcome lead given by the European Parliament on this matter.
But let me say one or two things about the points that have been raised about the specific British position.
First of all, we will pursue reform of the common agricultural policy not because it is a British policy, but because it is a matter which is in the interests of the whole of Europe, and on which we have a report from the Commission. (Applause) Indeed there is an encouraging degree of consensus about that reform.
When the Agricultural Council met in November, 14 out of 15 Member States wanted to take forward the Commission's proposals.
But that is not an objection of principle, nor is it in any way a criticism of those countries of Europe who wish to proceed to a single currency.
Over our next six months in the Chair, we will make sure that we consistently act with regard to our duty as President, to provide impartial, effective and competent arrangements for those countries who wish to proceed with the single currency to do so with the best possible prospects of success. (Applause) We will also, of course, make sure that we do not allow any difficulties over beef to become a matter that comes between us, as presidency, and our duties as the presidency.
Since one or two colleagues have raised it, let me respond to what has been said by saying this: we have been absolutely open on the situation regarding both the risks of BSE and the health consequences in Britain.
Indeed, I stand before you as a member of a government which reversed the previous refusal to discuss this issue with the European Parliament. (Applause) One of the very first steps taken by our new Agricultural Minister was to come to the European Parliament and discuss it with the committee in the European Parliament.
We will never ever succeed if we work against each other rather than sharing openly and frankly with each other what the problems are in the hope that we can better arrive at a common solution.
The debate is closed.
Votes Mr President, in accordance with Article 60, paragraph 2, as rapporteur I would like to request a postponement of the draft resolution.
I would like to insist, for the following dossiers, on the fact that the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights was given on the five Directives in September 1996, that is, at a politically different time to today.
There is irregularity also in the very content of new Article 79a, which has been drawn up in line with the assent procedure - already anticipated in Article 80 of the Rules of Procedure - and not as a compulsory consultation as anticipated by Article 109 j of the EC Treaty.
Furthermore, the parallel that can be made with the usual consultations of the European Parliament is illuminating.
In fact, the consultation of the European Parliament foreseen in Article 109 j, paragraphs 2 and 4 of the EC Treaty, is a compulsory consultation of a particular type, in which the European Parliament is requested to give its opinion to the Council, meeting in the composition of the Heads of State or Government, on the conclusions presented in the form of recommendations by the Council, that is the "Ecofin' Council.
The terms agreed by the European Parliament in setting its consultation procedure should have, as with the normal legislative consultations of Parliament in the process of Community decisions, expected a report containing an explanatory statement, along with a proposal for a legislative resolution advocating approval or rejection of the Council's "findings in the form of recommendations' , or proposing amendments to those recommendations.
This solution is so logical that - and this is revealing - it is the very one which the European Parliament adopted on 28th November 1996, when it gave its opinion to the Council, meeting in the composition of Heads of State or Government, on the recommendation drawn up by the "Ecofin' Council in accordance with Article 109 j, paragraph 2, of the Treaty.
This is a flagrant violation of the basic rules of democracy by the majority in our Parliament, who often decry the lack of democracy in the European Union and who ceaselessly demand more democracy in many countries around the world.
Moreover, when it is consulted on a text comprising a number of recommendations, Parliament must be able to express itself, to amend, add, remove, and it is the right of each one of its Members to be able to amend these recommendations and to vote separately on each one of them.
The European Parliament, which is normally concerned to uphold or even extend its prerogatives - in particular in relation to the Council - has therefore adopted an extremely paradoxical position.
The report involves minor improvements of a practical nature.
The conciliation procedure means that a central part of the actual legislative process takes place behind closed doors in the form of negotiations.
That is contrary to fundamental democratic principles, according to which lawmaking should always be done in complete openness and by elected representatives.
In these terms, the Ford report is an important report for the statistics of the Committee on Government and the rapporteur, but is no of no importance whatsoever for the future of the institution.
on the Lambraki report (A4-0001/98) The Swedish Social Democrat Group has abstained from the vote on this report.
Our basic position is that the common agricultural policy must be fundamentally reformed.
However, this report proposes an increase in subsidies, although it concerns a very limited area.
The proposal means an increased burden on the EU's budget of around ECU 30 million per year.
on the Filippi report (A4-0002/98) The Swedish Social Democrat Group has abstained from the vote on this report.
Our basic position is that the common agricultural policy must be fundamentally reformed.
on the Chesa report (A4-0003/98) I think that the common agricultural policy must be fundamentally reformed.
It can be moved, changed or return etc.
A direct cooperation between the Member States in network form should be sufficient to solve the problems which arise in this area.
Today the Danish Social Democrats voted for the report on the surveillance and control of communicable diseases in the Community.
This is what the Cabrol report recommends, when it considers the different human, sanitary and economic factors linked to the reduction of solvent emissions.
The ten million jobs affected, in more than 400 European businesses covering nearly 20 different sectors of economic activity, are physically able to adapt to lower emission standards than those currently acceptable.
He is correct when he rejects the Commission proposal to exempt those Member States which have drawn up national plans.
I hope that following today's vote Member States will move quickly to implement its proposals, even in advance of the October 2007 deadline.
That explains the amendments which have been tabled, and my vote.
Especially in regions with a lot of industry it is an important task for public health to combat air pollution, and a task I can support.
I warmly support the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's Amendments Nos 2, 17 and 20 which point out that there are also health aspects connected with the emission of VOCs.
I know because I am an asthma sufferer.
If this occurs the consumer is indeed automatically informed about the quality of the product.
We are therefore now spared from what happened to me with my report on the improvement of the production and marketing of honey in June.
Actually the Council completely ignored the fact that we had unanimously adopted 22 applications and my report here.
A few days afterwards it adopted as Point A the regulation in a downright undercover action, as the Commission had recommended to it.
In September I then discovered in talks with agriculture ministers that most of them had no idea that they had rejected our proposals. (Interruption by the President) As I value your presence in this House, I have granted you twice the allocated speaking time.
I simply wanted to tell you, Mr President, how the Council of Ministers has dealt with our amendments.
To understand the problem of honey properly, it is first of all necessary to remember that bees play a fundamental role in ensuring pollination of plants, that France is the second largest European producer of honey and, finally, that honey is a traditional product.
Besides the economic importance of this sector in terms of employment, both at the level of production, marketing and distribution, we must bear in mind the environmental importance of this production.
I think this example shows the importance of the interaction between certain agrochemical products and the environment.
Finally, it is necessary, both at the level of community legislation and international agreements negotiated within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, to preserve the very principle of "appellations' and "denominations' , along with the intrinsic quality of products marketed under these terms.
In fact, if honey was eventually considered as an industrial product, we would very rapidly witness a drift, in terms of administrative constraints - lists of ingredients etcetera, and a misuse of the terms "appellation' and "denomination' to the benefit of commercial brands, which could weaken all honey production links with a particular area.
Football is a sport, but it is also an important European industry.
Furthermore, it seems necessary to include eastern Europe, the Orthodox religion, including Russia, closely in the destiny of Europe.
I will abstain with regard to this report.
The extensive changes which the international landscape has been through since the 1980s have also changed the relationship between the EU and the USA.
The report recognizes the new situation, but also establishes that there is still a need for close cooperation across the Atlantic with a view to ensuring peace and stability in the world and respect for values like democracy and human rights.
The differences of opinion between Europe and America relate in particular to the areas of economics and trade.
I am delighted at the adoption by the vast majority of this House of the report I presented on future relations between the European Union, its Member States and the United States of America.
The success of transatlantic economic dialogue, which will from now on be at the centre of our relations with the United States, seems to me to be dependent on a number of conditions.
Success in transatlantic dialogue also assumes an active participation of Member States and business circles.
It could be considered that these different issues have, until now, been carefully avoided within the more recent and more delicate dialogues that the United States have embarked upon, in particular within the context of APEC or the Americas Summit.
Transatlantic dialogue can only be truly profitable if Europeans are able to defend firmly and cohesively the interests they identify in common.
Our American partners are able to defend their national interests pugnaciously.
It is also essential that the European Union is able to have at its disposal permanent instruments which are likely to form, if necessary, a credible threat of reprisal with regard to our partners.
Finally, given the essential role played by the American Congress in the area of foreign policy, and in particular foreign trade policy, interparliamentary dialogue with the United States assumes a particular importance: if managed well and firm in the decision to tackle all subjects, it can play a very useful role in reciprocal direct information and conflict prevention.
Employability is vital both for a competitive labour market and to provide people with security of employment by equipping them with the education and skills they need to adapt to a changing labour market' .
It is therefore very timely that the European Parliament and the Commission are now studying a report on access to continuing training which was produced as a result of the Council recommendation in 1993.
That recommendation identified 15 areas where it was felt that Member States needed to take action to encourage the development of access to training.
However, the Commission's report produced as a result of this recommendation does not provide us with the data which is necessary to determine if progress has been made, nor does it assess the impact made by the European Training Programmes and the structural funds resources on the development of access to training and its impact on employability in Member States.
The report in the main simply provides examples of best practice collected from Member States in 1993.
In fact the latest statistical data that we have on participation by European adults in training was produced by Eurostat in 1996.
Eurostat examined training participation of people aged over thirty during a four-week period in 1996 and they discovered that only 3.6 % of Europeans had been involved.
There were considerable inequalities of access and this evidence of inequality is backed up by many other studies.
There is, without doubt, clear recognition by the European Union, Member States and the social partners of the need for greater access to education and training for adults in order to increase employability, job security, flexibility and competitiveness.
It is therefore necessary to address the issues of low and unequal levels of participation in training and to determine measures that should be taken to make progress.
The report from the Employment and Social Affairs Committee contains some very concrete proposals which are within the Commission's powers to implement and I believe that the European Parliament expects the Commission to take them up immediately.
The Employment Committee is suggesting that 'showcases' of good practice should be presented at education and training fairs across the EU.
They must be encouraged to do so, since there is considerable agreement between them on the need for progress and the Luxembourg Job Summit has provided them with a further incentive.
Really there has been no better time for the EU to seize the opportunity to work with Member States and the social partners to make life-long learning a reality for European adults, the employed and the unemployed.
The UK Presidency has promised to concentrate on securing progress towards adaptable labour markets which are responsive to economic change and on ensuring that individuals can acquire the skills they need in a modern competitive economy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this almost seems like the midnight sitting which is to follow later, but I do not wish to draw any conclusion from this about the significance of our subject.
I should like to share the rapporteur's criticism of the paper submitted to us by the Commission.
The constructive criticism of the Committee on Women's Rights concerns particularly the following points: Firstly, we deeply regret the fact that in the European Commission's report no survey had been held within a number of sectors which are so very important to women, such as public administration, health and education.
Thirdly, women in small and medium enterprises, and female entrepreneurs must be given more attention during professional training and life-long learning.
Finally, the European Commission is always talking about mainstreaming and there some good plans on the table, like the one on the integration of equal opportunities in general policy.
Society has a responsibility by providing sufficient resources, by creating an active labour market policy, by creating a tax policy which encourages education and by creating a social insurance system which also provides the opportunity for education.
On the other hand, the Commission has presented no evaluation at all of the contribution of the joint programmes in its initiatives.
Although on a European level the social partners are in agreement about the factors which are significant for the promotion of access to further vocational training, but unfortunately there is a serious difficulty because there is no agreement about the measures to be taken and the implemental levels.
The measures should in particular include women as well as small and medium-sized companies.
A coordination of the projects in the particular sphere of employment with those in the sphere of further vocational training is required.
In the opinion of the social partners the recommendations of the Council in 1993 on access to further vocational training unfortunately scarcely had any effects on developments in the Member States.
This means that the lack of reliable and stable structures and mechanisms is hindering successful work in this area.
The social partners have so far failed to agree as to whether a Directive is necessary.
The necessity now, with the advance of technology, in particular the information society, is to upgrade people's skills, to give new skills to people presently in work, to give extra skills to those who are unemployed and who need to get into new types of work and also to have less regulation on the labour market to allow more flexible access to training.
In Ireland over the last number of years there has been a tremendous increase in the number of companies making use of the ADAPT programme, and this has allowed them not only to give new opportunities to existing workers but also to expand into other areas of technology and to bring in new people who were unemployed or long-term unemployed.
Secondly, the people who have undertaken courses themselves - whether they be Community employment schemes or vocational training schemes - should be asked how they felt the courses provided responded to their needs and what the long-term prospects were.
In conclusion, the need for across-the-board standardization of responses from the national reports is essential to get a fully clear picture for all of Europe.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I of course would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done, as well as the rapporteurs of other committees, who have come up with good issues.
I have a feeling that the degree in which it is thought that education can be used to a certain extent in competition policy, plays a part in the dissemination of information.
The reports by the Member States contain too little information.
When we look at the Eurostat figures we have to conclude that people working for big companies have a lot more opportunities for training paid for by the social partners than those who work in small and medium-sized enterprises.
If there is one thing which will give people the opportunity to return to the labour market and to allow them to be more competitive with people who have completed the right training, it is life-long learning, and the attention it is given.
A 45 year-old person is only pretty much half-way along his career path, and is therefore worth investing in.
This issue has also come very much into focus now in connection with the summit in Luxembourg where people also discussed and focused on how important further education and labour market training are.
However, reality looks a little different.
Mr President, on the basis of the document from the Commission and the Waddington report, this debate on access to continuing training in Europe needs to be considered on three levels, economic, social and cultural.
They, too, have a right to continuing training.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our modern giddy-paced industrial society lifelong learning is an absolute must in order to master the new challenges constantly facing everyone.
Only through widespread information about further training opportunities and promoting further training by creating and extending occupational incentives and by removing all access restrictions can further steps be taken against increasing unemployment and social peace be maintained.
That effort should be made not just to be of use to us in our own countries or to ourselves in the European Union as a pretext or an alibi, but as a substantial ingredient of a sincere and bold effort to combat unemployment.
New and ambiguous terms are becoming current, such as employability, adaptation, flexibility of labour, terms which are of our times but which need to be freed from sinister connotations and defined clearly, because it is natural that in a climate of unemployment such terms and approaches could create fears in our fellow citizens.
Yet, I would like to stress the fortunate timing of today's debate on the subject, just after the appearance of the British Presidency's programme in which unemployment has been given high and innovative priority, and just a few days, a few weeks after the special conference on employment and in anticipation of the implementation of special action to deal with unemployment and in anticipation, precisely, of the next Summit in Cardiff.
And as a last additional thought, I would like to mention that in the Eastern European area and in anticipation of enlargement, both during this transitional phase of intensified pre-accession procedures and in the long term with the future prospect of the new countries, we should already be considering how to extend vocational training to make it accessible to all.
The approach, Madam Commissioner, is to be welcomed as an initial attempt to analyze progress in vocational training in the Union and Member States.
It is understandable that there are shortcomings wherever systems and measures vary too greatly in quality and quantity.
Various colleagues have already pointed this out.
Further important actors are the social partners.
In the global competitive environment the consistent promotion of the most important resources - human resources - through further training is essential.
Mr President, the extraordinary Council on employment, which took place in Luxembourg, clearly highlighted training as a priority in the fight against unemployment and the Heads of Government committed themselves to improving access to training for the long term unemployed.
It is within this context that we are studying this first evaluation report, which is the first systematic attempt at analysing and facing up to the situation in our Member States.
The report also proposes paths of action to promote the dissemination of good practice.
We now know that the creation of ever more competitive jobs needs a skilled work force trained in new techniques, in particular in the area of communications.
Training, employment and competitiveness are firmly interconnected.
The right type of training could encourage women to even found their own small businesses and learn production skills.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to begin with thanks to Sue Waddington for her report, which as we are already aware has been submitted as a document of very high quality.
For we all know - and I should once again like to specifically point out - that over 50 % of the long-term unemployed in Europe are inadequately or wrongly trained and further trained.
This demonstrates the special significance of further training in Europe, particularly in connection with the combating of unemployment.
Formal access to vocational training is certainly guaranteed in all 15 Member States, but the reality - the opportunities for European citizens - varies considerably.
The various sectors are also different: for example the building sector, which quite urgently requires a further qualification, because there as well the working materials and the methods are new and they are developing further.
In the building sector only 15 % are engaged in further training compared to 57 % in the insurance and banking sector.
The subject of education and training is certainly one of the most fascinating and important for the cohesion and advance of any evolved society and, on the eve of the Twenty-first Century, I think we must find a new way of dealing with some of the tensions and contradictions we have before us and which only education and training can help us overcome.
First of all the relationship between the process of globalization, increasingly extensive and inevitable, and the defence of the values, the roots of each one, the values of the local Community.
Then there is a need to know how to resolve the conflict between tradition and modernity, because only with a just balance between these two factors is it also possible to govern the more global transformations.
A third central element is the relationship between the need for competitiveness and the preoccupation with equality and guaranteeing opportunities to all, especially the weakest and the excluded.
And at least the correct analysis of these three elements can lead to more focussed reflection on the problem of continuous education and training, which must become a central objective of the action of the European Union and the initiative to be adopted at all levels, European and national.
At the Luxembourg Council a precise commitment was made in this direction; we will check in Cardiff whether the Member States will demonstrate consistency.
I also hope that the Commission will incorporate into its own future work the valuable and important pointers contained in the Waddington report.
I can but be satisfied with the support provided by Parliament to the approach taken by the Commission in this first report on the state of affairs in the area of access to continuing training in the Union.
The Commission shares Parliament's point of view when it notes that regular monitoring in the area of access to continuing training is of great importance in the formulation of the necessary policies and that particular attention should be paid in the future to defining common qualitative and quantitative criteria which will enable results obtained in different countries to be compared.
Like Parliament, the Commission considers that Eurostat and the CEDEFOP should play a more active role in this follow up.
The Commission also considers that it is very important to provide a means of dissemination, at Community level, of good practice in the area of continuing training at all levels, within all industries and fields etcetera, by actively involving the social partners in this step.
These initiatives should be in coordination with the employment guidelines, taking particular account of the conclusions of the extraordinary European Council on Employment, in Luxembourg.
The Commission will watch over the complementarity of these different programmes and Community initiatives in this respect.
In addition, the Commission will give greater attention to the issue of equal opportunities in the promotion and follow up to access to continuing training.
It therefore accepts the amendments corresponding to conclusions 8, 10, 11 and 12 of the opinion drawn up by the Committee on Women's Rights.
Finally, it will take into account, in future initiatives in the area of access to continuing training and skills acquisition throughout working life, the present resolution of Parliament.
As you know, since the meeting of Heads of State and of Government in Essen in December 1994, Europe has given priority to investment in professional training, which was confirmed in the preamble to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The rise and development of the competence of the work force is today considered a determining factor in the employability of individuals, as well as in the adaptability and competitiveness of businesses.
Improvement in access to continuing training and the perspective of training which develops throughout one's working life, enabling continual acquisition of new areas of competence, are at the heart of active employment policies, as the conclusions of the extraordinary Council on Employment on 21st November last and the guidelines for employment policies adopted by the European Council last December showed.
This direction had already been clearly declared in the national reports of several countries such as Denmark, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
The present report, presented today, has three important results.
On average, in the Community, only a little more than one worker in four has participated in some form of further education during the year, and less than two out of every three businesses could be considered to be developing a policy regarding ongoing training.
Finally, the fact that initiatives in the area are numerous is an encouraging phenomenon, which stems equally from State authorities as from the social partners or businesses.
This dynamic of initiatives is an interesting and encouraging opportunity to disseminate best practice and to ensure more favourable development as the whole.
It seems to me important to refer to the follow up the Commission intends to give to the report, in particular the proposal for commencing a process of consultation with the social partners.
The Commission has noted the new dynamic of Community social dialogue with regard to the agreement reached on part-time contracts with a great deal of interest.
In addition, if a new phase of social dialogue commences on the theme of information, of worker consultation at national level, it would be possible for training to be fully a part of this, choosing the themes through consultation with the social partners.
Before any new proposal for follow up to this report I, along with my colleague Padraig Flynn, who is in charge of the issue of social dialogue, wanted to be able to have an in depth discussion with the social partners in the Community on the different paths possible.
We have also noted that the welcome given to this report by the different Community bodies has been extremely favourable.
This process of cooperation between the Commission, Member States and the social partners has enabled the establishment of the necessary bases to put in place progressively at Community level a framework enabling each Member State and the social partners to appreciate better the progress achieved, to situate its own actions in relation to others, and to gain inspiration from the experiences of others.
Thank you, Commissioner Cresson.
The debate is closed.
Voting will take place tomorrow at 12: 00.
Mr President, the report I am today presenting is in line with the Council recommendation of 1992 regarding the promotion of worker participation in company profits, which was a follow up to a Commission report on the situation in 1990.
In this non-binding instrument, the Council made eight recommendations to Member States for the promotion of participation and asked the Commission to draw up a report over four years on the development of participatory systems in Europe.
Finally, it seems that PEPPER systems may have a positive effect on employment, insofar as worker participation brings about new behaviour and new equilibria within the company.
We would like you to give your opinion on this proposal and, if need be, a timetable along with practical ways in which this working group can be set up.
In this spirit, I would like to note that on 7th and 8th May next, a first meeting of worker shareholders will take place in Brussels, which will give rise to the establishment of a European federation of worker shareholders.
We hope that this programme may be financed within the framework of the promotion of exchange of information.
Mrs Hermange requests the Commission to reinforce the exchange of information via participation systems amongst the Member States and to start information campaigns in these states, mainly with the social partners.
The report of the Social Committee adopts the idea of a wages policy which is oriented towards productivity.
The employees know that in clear text this means restraint in increases in cash wages.
It also wants to include the promotion of forms of investment in the discussion because they predominantly occur in small and medium-sized companies.
Indeed, the PEPPER Report is not a legislative initiative but a stimulus for discussion, and this aspect of capital formation policy should be discussed in any event, especially as it in no way relates to a replacement of statutory social insurance.
Primarily, the social partners are called upon to provide tailored participation models within a national framework.
The right response of our time is: partnership instead of class conflict.
In June 1992 the Council adopted a recommendation to promote systems relating to the participation of employees in operating profits.
After three years all national data were to be made available to the Commission for a new overview.
But we want to see action!
But from the Commission we expect more than merely a report with a description of the facts.
It should carry out investigations on the effects of the PEPPER systems, set in motion a programme for the exchange of information, set up a working party to promote the introduction of PEPPER systems particularly in international companies and consider a Community initiative on capital formation policy to solve the problem of participation rights for migrant workers as well.
I would particularly like to point out some examples which have worked quite well in my country, Sweden.
However, it must happen at the speed and in the way which each Member State itself desires.
It would have been very good, I think, if both the Commission and the rapporteur had included the need for companies to invest in funds for the future and what we recently talked about, life-long learning, so that there is investment not only in personal ownership, but also in short-term training in order to increase expertise, not just for the individual, not just for the company, but also for society as a whole.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, recognizing the right of subordinate employees to participate in the profits and success of the company has always been one of the priority objectives of the Italian political right.
For fifty years we have been maintaining that overcoming the class struggle and eliminating the conflict between capital and labour must essentially come through the participation of employees in the company capital.
That is why the parliamentary group of the National Alliance is delighted to welcome the reproposing of this subject and congratulates the rapporteur, and we also note the fact that even about six years after the recommendation of the European Council, little or nothing has changed in the various Member States.
In fact, excluding France and the United Kingdom, where progress has been made in the last five years on the ground of financial participation of employees, in the rest of the European Union a sterile debate continues about understanding whether these new participation systems should be the responsibility of government or the social partners.
The European Union must demonstrate more courage, more determination in this delicate matter, that is it needs to move from words to deeds, if only through the establishment of a European participation council, with the task of promoting the introduction of participation systems under comparable conditions throughout the Community.
It is necessary to act so that the social partners include this system in their negotiations and operate so that a regulatory framework is available in the Member States.
The model which is chosen in the Member States will depend on how the labour market is set up in the country concerned.
It is also a good idea to set up a working group which should include the social partners.
The PEPPER II report gives an overview of the way that the Member States have promoted financial participation of employees in profits and enterprise results since 1992, following the adoption of a Council recommendation on this very issue.
Since the adoption of the PEPPER report last January financial participation has, amongst many other topics, been discussed in the context of the Green Paper on partnership for a new organization of work.
The employment guidelines that were adopted in December also invite the social partners to negotiate agreements to modernize the organization of work, with the aim of making undertakings productive and competitive and achieving the required balance between flexibility and security.
In this context, the participation of employees in profits and enterprise results could assume a greater importance.
As the PEPPER report shows, profit-sharing is in all cases associated with higher productivity levels, no matter what methods, model specification and data are used.
The Commission agrees with Parliament that the impact of financial participation schemes on employment, productivity and wage flexibility should be further studied.
We agree with Parliament here - measuring the exact impact of such schemes can often be very difficult, particularly given the different fiscal and social security schemes that exist in the Member States.
Furthermore, since it seems that the lack of comparable information may be an obstacle to the promotion of financial participation schemes, the Commission supports the idea of launching incentive measures to promote information exchanges between Member States, provided adequate funding is available.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The presidency shares many of the concerns expressed by the European Parliament.
It is a problem which challenges our ability to act together both in European Union domestic policy terms and in foreign policy terms.
The presidency has drawn up proposals to tackle this difficult problem.
The meeting of police chiefs in Rome on 8 January was an important step in this direction.
In particular, we have to support the efforts of mediators in the reconciliation process between the Kurdish parties in Northern Iraq.
The presidency has discussed the matter with the Turkish Government which is taking the problem seriously and has tightened security measures at ports.
The presidency has attached the highest priority to work on the action plan on illegal immigration from Iraq commissioned at the Luxembourg European Council.
This crisis is a real test of the European Union's ability to take rapid and effective action within the framework of both the second and third pillars to deal with a serious problem.
Mr President, the European Union understandably exerts an attraction on many outside the Union who find themselves politically or economically oppressed.
When the European Union does not offer a common policy in exchange, the pressure of illegal immigration will only increase, resulting in the genuine refugee becoming the victim.
We owe a more effective policy to the Member States who are presently carrying the heaviest burden as regards receiving refugees.
Nonetheless the European Commission is trying for its part, through the MEDA programme amongst other things in the south east of Turkey, but also in northern Iraq through the ECHO humanitarian aid, to improve living conditions there, with the aim of preventing migration as a first option.
Mr President, on issues concerning the third pillar, in which the national authority of Member States dominates, the Commission has taken the necessary initiatives and has submitted proposals, a number of which I would like to mention here.
The Commission has submitted the proposal for the ODYSSEUS programme, which aims to promote exchange and training of functionaries who work in the field of emigration, external borders and asylum issues.
This proposal is presently still being discussed in the Council of Ministers.
We would like to point out the joint action of March last year to recognize temporary protection of asylum seekers, to which your Parliament has given its support.
The statement of 16 July last year on the deepening of the relations between the European Union and Turkey contains proposals for further cooperation in the sphere of police and customs; this is backed by financial resources.
The European Council of Luxembourg considered the consequences of the large tide of migrants, and then, too, the issue of Kurds from Iraq was discussed, and, as you know, the Council is preparing an action plan in which third and second pillar aspects are gathered.
In this context the Commission wishes to point to the complementary nature of the Union initiatives on the one hand, and action as part of the Schengen agreement on the other.
This is important because the Schengen agreement was incorporated into the Treaty of Amsterdam, and because current developments might endanger the implementation of one of the objectives of the Treaty, namely the abolition of border controls.
Yesterday a task force met to discuss a whole range of practical measures to control external borders on the basis of a list drawn up on 15 December.
Mr President, in conclusion the Commission would like to express its appreciation of Italy's efforts to respond adequately to the pressure of hundreds of new immigrants, and to do so in compliance with the obligations of international conventions, such as offering humanitarian aid and the opportunity to submit an application for asylum, whilst at the same time meeting its obligations to protect the external borders as effectively as possible.
Mr President, the joint action plan which is being prepared by the Council, will try to gather together all policy areas.
The Commission on its part will vigorously support the presidency's efforts for far-reaching agreements between the Member States.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the two statements have shown that there are very many points of agreement between the institutions of the European Union.
Firstly, it is important that the right of asylum is fully safeguarded in this Europe.
We must continue the dialogue with Turkey despite all the problems this involves, because a problem such as that of the Kurds can ultimately only be resolved jointly, with mutual support and assistance.
We must also convince Turkey that it is not only an internal problem, not only a problem to be resolved politically or even militarily, but a socio-economic and cultural problem which is to be resolved; and that Europe wants to help, not oppose Turkey, and would like to point Turkey in the direction of assistance.
We also addressed you on the matter, Mr Commissioner in the Committee for Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
In Europe we must assume responsibility for this jointly, and jointly create a rational asylum policy in this Europe.
The common foreign policy must ensure that the right of asylum is safeguarded in this Europe, that no fortress of Europe comes into being, but that a rationally controlled immigration policy ensures that xenophobia is eliminated and that we are an hospitable Europe, but for those who really need our help and support.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I think Commissioner van den Broek was right to recognize that the problem of the Kurds cannot be regarded just as an operation of police containment or security to be progressed with exclusively containment operations, given that it is a matter of an eminently political question which goes precisely to the root of things.
Italy has operated, and I want to give credit to Commissioner van den Broek for having recognized it, according to the international agreements and respecting the Schengen Treaty, strengthening the controls, expelling the clandestine immigrants - 54 000 and 38 000 in 1997 - sticking to all the obligations which are necessary but also adopting the measures which must be taken to be able to respect the right of asylum, without unloading its own responsibilities onto other countries.
But the question must be dealt with in a unitary and political way, also seeking to develop a different kind of policy towards Turkey which remains, precisely, a central country in decisions in respect of the Middle East.
I would like to say here that Europe is not only the Europe viewed horizontally, as Mr Cook viewed it this morning, framing it from Edinburgh to Vienna, but it also goes from Edinburgh to Barcelona, to Naples, to Athens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when in days gone by Kurdish refugees disembarked in Italy and to the appeal for solidarity launched from my country for a common European action came the response that the problem was entirely Italian, our European citizens had the proof, once again, that they belonged to an acephalous Union, a Union which imposes rules on everything that can be regulated in everyday life, but which then goes into hiding when world-scale events become urgent for our continent.
So a coherent and tangible policy is needed, also to promote economic development of the regions of Asia Minor, the Mediterranean and its peoples.
We cannot leave Italy on their own, I repeat the previous speaker's words.
Mr President, the number of emigrants may be a problem in this case, but the powerlessness of the European Union is a much bigger problem.
Mr President, we from the Liberal Group think there should have been a European action a long time ago, but for the moment what we see instead is pushing and pulling between Member States.
The moral of this story is that we either act jointly, or the problem will get out of hand.
Mr President, I think the Council Presidency and Commissioner van den Broek are very clear that it is absurd to think that they can stem the Kurdish migratory flood without a radical change in the situation in the places where they live today.
I believe that all this makes it urgent and necessary to hold an international conference on the Kurdish question.
A commitment from the Commissioner on this issue would be important.
I only want to add that I too consider important the recognition shown for the positive role played by the government of my country.
It has not been a pretty sight to see other governments say that the problem of migration was just an Italian problem; I think it is now time to pose the question of a common political asylum policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate concerns political responsibility.
Four weeks later these very people are being cooperated with, the Turkish police are being cooperated with and there are discussions with the Turkish police as to how the culprits can combat the victims (Applause) This is deceitful and cynical and makes it clear how seriously human rights policy is conducted! (Applause) Mr President, many colleagues have highlighted the cacophony Europe and some Member States have demonstrated faced with the issue of the flood of Kurdish refugees into Italy.
Having said that, may I say, Mr President, on the text that we will be voting on, that we are preparing to vote unilaterally, without dwelling for a moment on the Turkish question which was left in suspense in Luxembourg, and voting on a text of this kind risks being another slap in the fact to that willingness to re-open the dialogue on the participation of Turkey in the European Conference which we are all looking forward to and on which we are working, but which, unfortunately, has had no reply from Parliament.
Mr President-in-Office, I would first of all like to wish the British Presidency the best of luck.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the influx of hundreds of Kurdish refugees into Europe gives us the opportunity to question ourselves on the functioning of the police cooperation foreseen in the Schengen agreements and in the section concerning the total abolition of border controls on movements of people.
Austria, who joined Schengen on 1st December 1997, has just invoked the safeguard clause in order to increase controls at the Italian border.
France, which already uses this clause on its northern borders, has considerably strengthened controls along its borders with Italy, without even attempting to invoke the legal cover of the safeguard clause.
Each country must remain free to decide who lives within its borders, to protect and respect those it accepts and to refuse this right to those who do not respect its laws.
It is precisely within this context that the Treaty of Amsterdam anticipates, within a five year period after its enforcement, the abolition of all controls on movement of people, including those from third countries, at the internal borders of the Union.
I simply hope that the French, and in particular those from Alsace, will be able to give their opinion on the subject and reject the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Mr President, once again I am wondering what Europe wants and what role Europe is playing in the face of the daily events of extra-European immigrations of entire peoples.
Exposed nerves because slightly more than two thousand refugees were enough for someone to call for the immediate annulment of a pact, an agreement, a treaty which has cost so many years of work and which built the possibility of free movement.
And still they ask us, they have asked us, starting with the Archbishop of Lecce, whom we met, to formulate a policy on the right of asylum.
To control 120 kilometres of European coastline, is perhaps the case of contributing to the operation of our government in southern Albania to stop the criminals organizing this exodus.
From this angle - if you will permit - those who abused our government were twice mistaken, but above all made a grave error: that of demonstrating that this Europe of exposed nerves, of ugly conscience is alive in their person and in their behaviour.
Therefore, it must firstly be emphasized that what is happening in Italy at the moment does not represent an Italian problem, nor a German problem, nor even a German-Italian problem, but that the movement of Kurdish refugees is centred in Turkey.
We must decide whether refugees can stay in our country or not, and such decisions must be made quickly and constitutionally.
A final point: everything we are now witnessing in connection with the situation in Italy cries out for a European ruling.
This requires joint European efforts such as they are laid down in the Amsterdam Treaty.
This is what the case of Italy, the case of the Kurdish refugees, warns us about.
Mr President, it is very sad that the fate of the Kurds started to preoccupy the European Union more intensely mainly only after a small part of the problem began being exported to the West.
I would like the President-in-Office of the Council to follow my speech.
There is the aspect of ethnic cleansing, reducing the Kurdish population and, as we did with the Moslems from former Yugoslavia, whom we took in but at the same time strove to intervene and made proposals for a solution to the Yugoslavian problems, so too we ought to make proposals for a solution to the Kurdish problem.
I add, also at the historical level, that the present Turkish tragedy is a consequence of the hypocrisy and egoism of many so-called civilized and advanced countries, which have contributed to - and have often connived in - the fact that this people is still denied one country, safe and peaceful.
We are talking about the fate of people who are forced to escape because they are threatened life and limb, because their property is threatened, because they are driven out of their native country, because members of their family have been killed and because their basic living standards have been destroyed.
But when Saddam Hussein occupies Kuwait and when this man produces weapons which are internationally outlawed and forbidden, an international alliance comes together to overpower him, which is right.
There is a whole group of people in this Parliament as well who do not think like you, Mr Nassauer, and do not think like I do, who want a fortress Europe and who construe this kind of debate which we are conducting as a justification and legitimation of what they think is right.
And we need an international outlawing of countries which pursue their policies in contempt of international law, as Turkey does in northern Iraq, and countries which unscrupulously repress minorities and deny them cultural and ethnic self-determination, because these are the real causes of their having to escape.
I have to say that I was very taken with the fact that they both place the problem in a wider context, and do not give in to the tendency to panic reaction to an incident and shoot, but instead to look at the problems which take place in the second and third pillar, which are really the cause of what is happening.
The strange thing is that, with reference to the enlargement of the Union, the European Parliament stressed only recently that we are a league of constitutional states and democracies, and that only Member States which meet these conditions can join; that the emphasis on the constitutional state is immediately and forcefully proved as being right by the arrival of boats with hundreds of refugees from Turkey and Iraq, countries where there is no constitutional state and democracy for these people.
Secondly, I would like emphasize the fact that there are of course also problems in the sphere of foreign policy.
My colleague Nassauer has explained the Schengen issue excellently.
Our foreign policy is I think often caused by massive migrations, massive refugee movements.
The same may happen in the future as far as Algeria is concerned.
I think we have to make efforts to create a truly common foreign policy towards these countries.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This is not a problem that affects only one part of the Union; it affects potentially the whole of the Union.
It is also welcome that there is an understanding that there needs to be cooperation among the Member States.
But I can say to him that the presidency will report the debate to the General Affairs Council on 26 January.
Mr Oostlander mentioned the question of Algeria and potentially of course there could be a similar problem emanating from the troubles and the difficulties there.
We will also take forward a close dialogue with the Algerians authorities in the coming hours and days.
Thank you, Mr Henderson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0001/98).
He subsequently returned to Minsk and had meetings with the British ambassador in November and December 1997.
The Council sees no need at present to intervene with the Belarussian authorities on behalf of Mr Novikov.
Nevertheless, during 1997, the Council noted with concern that Belarus had not made any substantial progress in this direction and it became evident that numerous violations of human rights and basic freedoms, notably concerning the freedom of the media, had been committed by the Belarussian authorities.
The General Affairs Council conclusions of 24 February, statement of 29 April and conclusions of 15 September reflected these concerns.
The Council, in cooperation with the OSCE and the Council of Europe has reacted to these events with speed and determination and will continue its efforts to urge the Belarussian authorities to respect human rights and democratic principles.
I cannot, at this moment, give particular details, but I would be happy to write to the honourable Member at a later stage and give him the information that I have in my possession back in my office.
I would like to say to the honourable Member that I think she has, in essence, raised a very similar point to the previous questioner.
I understand that there is sometimes a feeling that the Russians can always have their own way in places like Belarus.
The measures agreed in Luxembourg, which were formally adopted by the Social Affairs Council on 15 December 1997, will be applied to all Member States across the European Union.
Member States will develop policies to ensure that every unemployed young person is eventually offered a new start in the form of a job, training, retraining practice or other employability measure before reaching six months of unemployment, and that all adults without work are offered a fresh start before they reach 12 months of unemployment.
The European Council agreed that these objectives should be implemented within a period not greater than five years.
It is true that this implementation period may be extended in Member States with particularly high unemployment, but the Luxembourg conclusions will eventually be applied in full across the whole of the European Union.
Mr Hernández Mollar has the floor.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has any country excluded itself from presenting a national employment action plan at the forthcoming European Council in Cardiff, or announced an exclusion clause with respect to the Council directives?
Mr Aznar's Government, in contrast, is at this very moment holding discussions with the trades unions on the action plan to be presented at the European Council in Cardiff.
Thank you, Mr Hernández Mollar.
Every partner within the European Union is expected by the British Presidency to come forward with action plans, which will allow a discussion of those plans in the organs of both Parliament and the Council before the Cardiff Summit, hopefully so that there is an opportunity for the different partners to learn from some of the suggestions of some of the other partners and also from the reflecting comments of both Parliament, which are very much valued, and, indeed, of the committees of the Council itself.
The rule referred to is paragraph 1.2 of the information leaflet on the temporary use of vehicles in Finland, which states that a citizen is deemed to be resident in the place where he or she spends 185 days per year.
I should like to say to Mrs Ahlqvist that I cannot give an opinion on the individual case raised by the honourable Member but I should like to point out the ruling, which she has referred to, already made by the Court of Justice in a 1991 case: ' The mere fact that a national of a Member State B who has moved to a Member State A where he has found employment and accommodation has after a certain date and for over a year spent almost every night and a weekend with a woman friend in Member State B, whilst retaining his employment and his accommodation in Member State A, is not sufficient to justify the conclusion that he has moved his normal residence to Member State B' .
The question which I would like to ask the Council of Ministers is whether it would not lay the foundations if the Council of Ministers and the Member States could agree on common guidelines, firstly with regard to car taxation, and secondly with regard to what is a person's domicile according to tax legislation, which is something which has often been raised in Parliament's Committee on Petitions.
Members are appointed by the Council acting unanimously on proposals from the respective Member States.
The Greek Government has proposed to the Council six local government and six regional government representatives for the new four year term.
Nominations for membership are a matter for individual Member States.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I know what the Treaty provides and I mentioned it in my question, namely that there are no specific criteria.
The government itself, the socialist government, appointed Greece's delegates four years ago on the basis of the same results of the local elections, in accordance with which our party, the official opposition, had four delegates.
Now, in the new delegation, the socialist party with 41 % has seven delegates and we have only two.
Mr President, I really have nothing further to add to my previous two replies which I hope make the position clear.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I understand and sympathize with your dilemma in this debate.
Somewhere, Mr Henderson, you said at another stage of today's debate that you felt as if you were in the Parliament of the Communities.
I wondered if the President-in-Office would comment on the fact that this is a problem not just in Greece but in a number of Member States and whether he will commit his own government to review the political balance of the UK representation on the Committee of the Regions?
The focus for the coming year will increasingly be on civilian implementation but it is clear that this will continue to require maintenance of a secure and stable environment.
The Peace Implementation Council, in which the European Union and Member States actively participate, considered at the Bonn Conference on 9/10 December a continuing military presence indispensable for this task and welcomed NATO's plans to consider options for a multinational follow-on force to SFOR beyond June 1998.
Secondly, is it not the time for European rhetoric on a European defence identity to have some actuality and for us to start to take more responsibility ourselves for the Bosnian peace process in the long term?
Representations have been made by a number of Member States on this question and there will be meetings in Washington between the presidency and the United States Government later this week.
As to the long term, the honourable Member is absolutely right that it is very important that, in colloquial terms, we 'keep a grip' of the situation in political, diplomatic and military terms.
Mr President, it goes without saying that the duration of the SFOR Mandate is also closely linked with internal developments in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The question of aid is an important issue.
The Council reiterated that the objective of the European Union towards Cuba remains the encouragement of a process of peaceful transition towards democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, sustainable economic recovery and improvement in the living standards of the Cuban people.
The Council has not discussed the possibility of Cuba acceding to the Lomé Convention.
There are other conditions that have to be met in a democracy: press freedom, human rights and other issues.
Surely Cuba is more likely to move towards a more democratic form of government through strengthened trade links with democratic countries and being readmitted to the mainstream rather than being regarded as a pariah state?
Can I thank the honourable Member for the supplementary question.
It is against all international treaties, all international laws and indeed has been condemned, as has the Helms-Burton Act, by the European Union.
The presidency is aware of the sensitivity that some Member States attach to certain products.
In relation to the honourable Member's remarks on the Cardiff Summit in Wales, it would be a nice idea if President Mandela were able to come.
However, I have to say that in this House we have heard endless goodwill towards South Africa since the end of apartheid but there has been relatively little action, particularly on the trade and cooperation talks.
The problem up to now has been in the Council, not with the Commission and certainly not with Parliament, and if the South African Government comes back to the Council and wants to renegotiate a mandate, the British Presidency will have to give this an extremely high priority indeed if it is going to bring the more reluctant Member States into line.
I would like to say that I understand the point that was made but, first of all, there is a distinction between a policy for South Africa and a policy for southern Africa; that is one aspect in relation to the matters he raises.
In 1995 the Sakharov Prize was awarded to Leyla Zana, a Kurdish Member of the Turkish Parliament, in recognition of her unyielding struggle, for which she was relentlessly persecuted and incarcerated by the Turkish Government.
It recalled, in line with the Council position expressed at the Association Council with Turkey on 29 April 1997, that strengthening Turkey's links with the European Union also depended on that country's pursuit of political reforms, including the alignment of human rights standards and practices with those in the European Union as well as respect for and protection of minorities.
We will continue to pursue with vigour the course that I identified in my answer to the original question.
An improvement in human rights in Turkey is a very important part of the continuing dialogue with the Turkish Government and the Turkish people.
It is linked to a number of other important foreign policy matters which will be under discussion during our presidency.
It is a priority of our presidency to try to make progress.
I have no illusions about the difficulties involved in some of these issues, but I hope I can reassure the honourable Member by saying that we have a determination to try to make progress.
I would hope to continue during the presidency to make similar representations to the Turkish Government in the hope that they would recognize that there needs to be change and that, as change takes place, benefits will accrue not only to those who suffer because of a lack of human rights - and who, in some cases, are incarcerated - but also potentially to Turkey and the Turkish people in building better, stronger and more effective links with the European Union.
The discussions of the Council are currently under way and it is difficult at the present time to predict what direction they will take.
It is even more difficult to say when they may reach completion.
However, at this stage, two things are certain.
Secondly, the Council awaits with interest the European Parliament's opinion on this draft Convention which was forwarded to it a little over two months ago.
I wonder whether you reached any conclusion on this point at the Council of Ministers' meeting in December.
Agreement has yet to be reached on the rest.
The issue of the Eurodac Convention highlights the way in which legitimate concerns and national security can sometimes conflict with human rights and civil liberties.
Parliament will be debating a report on the Eurodac Convention tomorrow and voting on it later.
As the honourable Member may be aware, the Commission issued a Recommendation on 12 May 1995 concerning late payment on commercial debt, Doc. 95/198/CE and published a Communication on this question on 17 July 1997.
The Commission has also announced that a proposal for a directive on late payments will be transmitted to the Council in the near future.
But it seems that in spite of these two texts, nothing has changed and late payments remain very much the same, since they vary from 19 to 75 days, with further delays of between 6 and 41 days.
I would therefore like to see from the presidency a timetable and firm commitment, for there are distortions in competitiveness, even sometimes national preferential treatment, which is completely in contradiction with the single market.
Can I say to the honourable Member that I understand his concerns.
In some instances clearly action may be appropriate at Member State level but where there are international contracts that is something which should be examined very carefully to see if we can agree the context and the specific regulations that would help those small companies across international borders within our Union.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
Since the time allocated to questions to the Council has now expired, Questions Nos 11 to 43 will be dealt with in writing.
Mr President, as you know, the report on relocation and direct investment was referred back to the Committee on External Economic Relations last December, where its general philosophy was once again approved by a large majority.
This report attempts to take into account the environment in which we live and to fit in with modernity.
Whether you are in agreement or not, you cannot ignore, for example, the Uruguay Round agreements, globalization, the implementation of the euro and the technological revolution which we are experiencing, if you wish to tackle the problem of relocations.
The arrival of the euro will therefore be a factor of monetary stability and it will contribute to avoiding competitive devaluations, thus limiting certain relocations within the context of the Union.
But everyone also understands that an overvaluation of the euro would only strengthen the current trend for relocation to countries where the currency is undervalued.
Furthermore, questions arise concerning the countries which will not join the single currency on 1st January 1999.
The conquest of new markets is an imperative for businesses, and investment is necessary to accompany this strategy.
The database set up to this effect has been a great success.
On the contrary, it is a matter of seeing how some uncontrolled relocations, whose aim is not to conquer a market but to bring about subcontracting, which very often leads to greater exploitation of the workforce and a massive cut in jobs within Europe, can be avoided.
This loyalty must be practised with regard to European employees, who have the right to be better informed, above all before any site closures or relocation decisions are taken, hence the requested revision of Directive 94/95 C.
Finally, loyalty must be the rule between the large European distribution firms, the manufacturers and the sub-contractors, through a contract of confidence encouraging a better exchange of information and thus a greater securing of loyal customers.
This code would not be an assortment of sanctions, but a company committing itself to this way of working might see its name quoted in the Official Journal or on the Internet.
Furthermore, at a time when the United States Administration is making the effort to develop a code of good conduct for American companies, would it not be appropriate for the European Union, the cradle of human rights, to be offensive in this regard also?
By launching a great European policy in these two areas, the Union could not only avoid certain relocations but, what is more, could contribute to further relocations, that is, towards Europe.
I am counting on the decisions taken at the Luxembourg Summit on Employment to give a new impulse to this policy.
Furthermore, we are also requesting the establishment of a code of good conduct with regard to taxation.
It is certain that the abolition of tax loopholes would be one solution to uncontrolled relocations, but this is a long and difficult path.
Mr President, this is all I wanted to say this evening.
Mr President, the rapporteur has quite rightly presented the difficult relationships which can exist between foreign direct investments and industrial relocations.
This applies just as readily to the European internal market, to trade and commerce, which is so important for us all, and indeed to the world market.
Here in the European Union we can still see that we are an attractive investment area and that this will be enhanced by the introduction of the euro and the completion of the internal market.
We not only need an international system to regulate competition but we must also have a code of conduct to control the increase in foreign production and the internationalization and globalization of the marketplace.
Finally, transnational groups have created world monopolies in some products; these transnationals not only control one third of all goods and services, but what is more, the one hundred largest of them are responsible for 16 % of total world employment.
However, problems do arise when the conditions which apply at the new location contravene legal requirements, such as in the extreme case of child labour and forced labour, when women are subject to job discrimination in the relocated companies and when, for example, money laundering is involved.
But industrial relocations can in some circumstances be necessary in order to open up markets, or produce goods, in new continents which are closer to the point of consumption.
Some companies have already begun to realize the consequences of this and are now starting to relocate some of their business operations from Asia back to Europe.
However, I must also refer to the amendment which he has submitted on the subject of the euro, namely Item 22a (new), which suggests that the European political authorities - whoever they are - should, by way of the European Council, reflect on the impact of establishing Euro-Dollar parity on foreign direct investments.
I believe that this recommendation is misdirected and indeed it was rejected yesterday by Commissioner de Silguy during the debate on the Ruffolo report.
The formal agreement on exchange rate systems, which is the issue raised here, is quite a different matter and, if it came to it, would concern a new Bretton Woods institution - but not the price regulation of the Euro-Dollar exchange rate.
Article 109 emphatically states that the European Central Bank is not to receive instructions or recommendations from decision-making bodies, from Community bodies or institutions, from national governments of Member States or from any other quarter.
The report was supposed to have dealt with relocation and direct investments in third countries.
Well, a major part of the resolution concerns socio-economic policy within the Union, or recommendations for the introduction of the euro.
The second reason the group had difficulties with this report concerns substantive basic assumptions.
Capitalism is both a process to increase the value of capital and a social order structured round it.
The European Union is the modern version of capitalism in Europe.
We export this culture to other countries in the shape of company relocations and massive investment programmes.
A mechanic working for a European car manufacturer has a right to an uncontaminated, clean and socially-just workplace, no matter whether the factory is in Stuttgart or in Campinas down in Brazil.
For this reason we need controls and this is why we in the REX Committee organized a hearing and have submitted the report which is to be adopted today at the second attempt.
Mr President, the return of the Sainjon report to the House from the Committee on External Economic Relations, with no significant amendments, confronts us once again with the minimalist approach to the phenomenon of relocation, which has been upheld by the rapporteur and which we deplore.
Furthermore, this report is presented in a paradoxical way since in its explanatory statement, it tends to minimize the social and territorial impact of the practice of relocation and, in the motion for a resolution, to multiply the different palliatives, in an attempt to lessen the worst consequences.
This range of measures, which are certainly interesting - code of good conduct, international global labels, contracts of confidence between manufacturer and distributor, measures to combat forced labour - are, first and foremost, many admissions of the pernicious effects of the process of relocation.
Undoubtedly the reality of the phenomenon is difficult to comprehend statistically, but the approach retained by André Sainjon seems particularly restrictive.
When you count the number of jobs wiped out in our countries by relocations, you have to take into account not only the products reimported from low salary countries but also products coming from highly developed countries with an average of 30 % of their components produced in low salary countries.
First of all, it very comprehensively embraces the subject matter and issues raised at the public hearing organized by the REX Committee last year.
Additionally, I would reinforce the rapporteur's demand for an inclusion of social and environmental clauses, international agreements and WTO rules.
Mr Sainjon raises some interesting questions on the potential consequences resulting from the introduction of a single currency, I look forward to hearing the Commission's response to that.
I would submit that the big companies who lobby the Commission, who seek benign legislation or even deregulation or benefit from training programmes, have a duty and an obligation to be open and frank about their long term investment relocation plans.
I believe that it is not too much to ask that they inform us well in advance not only where their planned foreign investment is to be but what market it is intended to serve and what impact it is likely to have on employment and unemployment in the European Union.
I hope that when the Commission has discussions with multinational companies, as we know it does, it will raise these points with them because in the absence of such information any plans to systematically tackle unemployment are reduced to mere fire-fighting exercises.
If this proposed agreement is seen to restrict social or environmental legislation or to hinder the socio-economic progress of developing countries then it will be fiercely and rigorously opposed and I would advise the Commission to take careful note of the growing concern surrounding the MAI.
We should begin by remembering that, in a worldwide context, the European Union is the most sought-after destination for direct foreign investments (45 % of the total), with an economic impact that is reflected in the broadly positive balance.
For that reason, we have to accept the fact that European investment abroad is also substantial, although we should be particularly sensitive to investments in countries where labour is cheaper with production leading to unemployment in our countries.
With the requirement resulting from a broader scope, the rapporteur's reference to the fact that the structural funds should be concentrated, more than in the past, on the promotion of research and technological innovation for companies established in the less favoured regions of the Union is particularly appropriate, in order to increase their competitiveness and ability to face the competition of the developing countries with emerging economies.
In fact, only a balanced Europe, without the costs of great mergers and making use of all national and regional potential, can face the competition of a world we have to be more and more open to, in our own interests.
This is a requirement for the whole Union and for each of the countries, particularly for Portugal, where there is so much to be done in the field of regional development.
But there is a Swedish company, Ericsson - and others following suit - which sell part of their production to small firms without guaranteeing the workers' rights and without guaranteeing the workers' future in that small firm.
The pronouncements on harmonization of tax conditions and a fiscal code of conduct have rightly been deleted during the follow-up discussion in the REX Committee.
The European Commission must draw up a code of conduct for European multinationals.
The European institutions are not state organisations but supernational authorities to whom a limited number of powers are delegated.
A code of conduct for multinational companies would be welcome.
But when it comes to combating child labour or forced labour, in other words modern slavery, then a code of conduct is not enough.
The structural funds should in future be used much more for technological research and innovation.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of relocation is a particularly burning issue in European public opinion.
I would also like to repeat my agreement with the demand for a social clause in the international trading system in order to fight against all forms of exploitation, if not slavery, in the third world.
Finally, and I will say this again and again, it is not possible to accept that companies which benefit from European subsidies can then relocate, and even less possible to accept that relocations are caused by the subsidies themselves, within Europe.
The report should, however, have been able to remind people to a greater extent how total investments in the EU could increase.
Let me take paragraph 15 of the report as an example.
There it says that the structural funds should to a large degree be aimed at creating an innovation and research-friendly environment for large and small companies in the area of information technology and that the Adapt programme should accelerate the training of workers to make them more able to react to technical change.
Mr President, I would like to concentrate on the impact of European relocation decisions as they impact upon developing countries.
Overall, we all know that foreign direct investment, in both its level and its potential, could have a far greater impact for good in the world compared to development aid.
The rapporteur rightly calls for a European code of conduct for multinationals and one that is developed in conjunction with international institutions.
I am proud that the new government's international development White Paper in my own Member State, the UK, echoed these demands.
At the November plenary session in Brussels, Sir Leon Brittan commented in detail on the first report.
I should like to refer to two points that the Commission welcomes.
Firstly, the report identifies the benefits that outward investments bring, both for the European Union and the countries which receive FDI.
It highlights the benefits, as I said, and also underlines the more limited costs.
However - and this is important - it does not simply dismiss these costs, but takes on board the concerns that a large part of public opinion and the industrial sector are expressing about relocation.
I would refer to two points.
The Commission welcomes the pragmatic idea of a code of conduct, particularly in third countries, in relation to social standards.
As you know, the Commission proposed the specific initiative on trade and labour standards prior to the Singapore WTO ministerial conference.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In any case, Mr President, this is a report which I do not think will cause Parliament any serious difficulties.
It is a regulation proposed by the Commission which aims to make permanent some support - which already existed on a temporary basis - for the outlying regions of the Community.
That is, when making a temporary regulation into a permanent one, it would not make much sense to keep to the figures established initially, on the basis of a given situation which might have been valid in 1992.
Amendments Nos 5, 6, 7 and 8 are an attempt to adapt the assistance to the Canary Islands to those products which are in effect being marketed at the moment.
Finally, Amendment No 3 is a modest amendment considering that it merely reiterates something which already exists, this being the obligation to enforce the minimum limit of 30 metres depth for fishing on the continental shelf.
Amendment 9, which assumes that in order to be able to give additional aid to the island of Réunion it would have to be deducted from assistance to another outlying French region, would cause difficulties for that other outlying French region.
Finally, Mr President, I do not know where this regulation will lead once it is adopted but, bearing in mind the remark by the representative of the European Commission and that, subsequently, the Council will have to adopt the final regulation, I hope that neither the Commission nor the Council consider the amendments submitted by the Fisheries Committee - which could easily be accepted tomorrow - as a very tight straitjacket.
I think that the amendments are positive and constructive and, of course, I wish to thank the Commission for proposing this type of regulation, which will doubtless be favourable for the outlying areas of the Community.
The EU's recognition of the need to establish fair conditions for the marketing of certain fishery products, in order to compensate for the disadvantages deriving from remoteness, has been co-substantiated since 1992 by means of an aid scheme systematically extended to 1997.
The great remoteness of the fishery products marketing regions, the small size of the markets for marketing these products and the increase in production costs related to the high cost of transportation, associated with unfair competition resulting from commercial agreements which the EU has arranged with third countries, obtaining commercial advantages in relation to those regions, make the survival of the processing industries and a whole chain of workers directly or indirectly connected with them dependent on the compensatory aid scheme.
With regard to Madeira and the Azores, owing to the incentive policies, it has been possible not only to consolidate but in some cases to increase the industrial fabric harmoniously, enabling surplus local production, mainly tuna, mackerel and black swordfish, to be marketed, giving prospects of sustainable development to the processing companies.
And so we welcome the Commission's motion and the amendments introduced by the rapporteur and we keenly ask for its approval by Parliament and Council, so as to maintain stability in the fishery sector and in this way also stimulate the creation of new jobs.
Their object, as we know, is to compensate the ultra-peripheral regions for the additional production costs and for the processing costs and, mainly, for the costs of marketing species of fish whose market lies outside those regions, which are normally very small and very restricted markets and so they normally have to export to the European continent and to the Common Market.
The aid should be subject to periodic assessment, which should always take into consideration the development of catches, of existing stocks and, naturally, also, the development of the markets and allow these permitted levels of aid to be increased at any time, if there is a favourable trend in production and catches and a favourable market trend.
It agrees with the amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries, but is voting against some amendments presented after the part-session, mainly Amendment Nos 10 and 12.
It is precisely because the problems encountered by producers in Reunion are of this nature that we proposed the inclusion of this region within the parameters of the compensation system.
But the marketing, in Europe in particular, of fresh produce is handicapped by the freight costs and packaging costs.
This situation causes the long line fishermen of Reunion to settle for the local market, which brings about direct competition between long line fishing and traditional fishing.
Furthermore, within the context of the discussions on this report in the Committee on Fisheries, we met a delegation of traditional fishermen from Guiana, who came especially to draw our attention to the problems of this region.
There, some industrial outfits do not hesitate to fish for shrimps near the coast, in waters less than 30 metres deep.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's motion to reintroduce the scheme to provide compensation for fishery products in ultra-peripheral regions deserves our natural support, as does the report and amendments proposed by the Committee on Fisheries.
The Commission's proposal, however, goes to prove today, in 1998, that we were right three years ago when we discussed the same proposed reintroduction for the period ended 31 December 1997.
The sectors now supported on these peripheral Portuguese islands were already claiming compensation three years ago, and we repeated them, having amendments approved that reflected those concerns.
On that account, we should not forget today that we all agree in 1998 on the responsibility held by the regional authorities that forgot the deep-sea fishermen in the Azores and the swordfish and mackerel fishermen in Madeira three years ago, not giving continuity to the needs of these local economic sectors along with the Commission.
And, finally, we should not forget certain omissions and obstructions or diversion tactics that appeared or were introduced here during the discussion that then began in this Parliament.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Regulation is in fact based on an extremely strong legitimacy.
This legitimacy has been present in the text since the Treaty of Rome, repeated in the accession treaty for Spain and Portugal, renewed once more in the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Conference of Maastricht and finally taken up in the Treaty of Amsterdam, even if this has yet to be ratified.
In other words, there is continuity in the very spirit of this text and in this system of compensation.
Furthermore, the European Union, and the European Parliament in particular, recognized the need to take the specificities of these remote regions into account and adopted the POSEI programmes in 1989 and 1991.
The European Union, and the European Parliament in particular, can thus take pride in the significant aid it has brought to these territories and to activities which are sometimes the primary source of export receipts.
Furthermore, with regard to Guiana in particular, I would like to draw your attention - and I know that the Committee on Fisheries will understand me entirely, because it is an open and dynamic Committee - to the need to consider different approaches.
If we have to perpetuate this system, it is also important to encourage the different economic operators to work together, to understand each other and to organize together in order to manage, in the common interest, resources which are certainly not inexhaustible but which also have their own ethological laws.
In the short term, it is clear that this system must be maintained, that justice must be established - that you can certainly not impoverish some in order to establish justice for others - and that we must ensure, in the future, common management of resources, by the fishing professionals to begin with.
The economic and social impact of fishing, particularly on employment, and the special conditions of the remoteness of the Azores region justify it.
Anybody who reads the reasons set out in that report will be able to confirm that this aid is justified and needs to remain in place.
Being an island in itself, and more so when accompanied by particular remoteness with regard to the main centres of economic activity, contributes towards creating, in a more or less extreme form, certain peculiarities in the production of islands and their commercial interchange with the rest of the world.
On the other hand, the support contained in the POSEICAN, POSEIMA and POSEIDOM programmes has enabled the industries to develop from merely extracting the fish to exporting it in the form of semi- or fully processed products, creating new prospects of development and wealth.
This has happened in this case with aid to Guiana which did not take into account, as it should have done, the actual protection of the interests of its local fishing industry.
The presence of representatives from Guiana on the Fisheries Committee demonstrated this region's concern to obtain a system of support which ensures respect for the continuing biological viability of its fishing resources, something which the Commission should defend in principle.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the measures proposed for this regulation are simply the updating and continuation of those adopted in 1994 and 1995 within the framework of the POSEIMA, POSEIDOM and POSEICAN programmes.
There are third countries which enjoy advantageous agreements with the European Union and it would be difficult not to give permanent support to the community's fishing industry when this is provided to third countries which are not members of the Community.
The report is very up-to-date inasmuch as it addresses structural policy aspects of the fisheries sector.
We have on several occasions complained of the fact that the fisheries industry is scarcely mentioned in Agenda 2000, while the Commission Work Programme for 1998 only refers to it in passing.
As a result of this we were motivated to focus now on the structural problems affecting the fisheries sector.
The long-running alignment programme and the technical measures agreed in 1997 can only have a positive effect on the lives and jobs of those working in the fisheries sector once the structural problems affecting this industry are tackled and ultimately solved.
Parliament has already played its part in 1997 by drawing up a forward-looking report on European fisheries policy after 2002.
Two further initiative reports are to follow in 1998.
The very heading of the proposed regulation is in itself fortunate.
For years we have been advocating the need for the outlying regions to have their shortages and natural disadvantages recognized so that they can become part of the internal market and benefit from their participation in it.
That is why I consider it necessary - as the Commission recognises - to maintain this kind of aid in the future as well.
For some outlying territories - for instance the islands of Pico in the Azores or Lanzarote in the Canary Islands - fishing is not just another of its economic resources, but forms part of its very life, culture and traditions.
That is why it is necessary to maintain current policies, and this is what the regulation we are discussing today finally proposes.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent report now being discussed relates to the aid to be given to one of the sectors of economic activity of the ultra-peripheral regions of the EU which might not be that of greatest expression in some of those regions.
However, it is not the most lacking in aid, in view of the environmental and social strategic importance of the fishery sector and its production, processing and marketing.
Some of the reasons given and others that could be given fully justify the belief that the measures now taken should not be considered transitional or temporary but, on the contrary, should be understood in a logic of constant geographical conditions and not just that but highly penalizing, thus deserving permanent and definitive measures.
This incentive policy permitted the consolidation and implementation of an harmonious industrial fabric, enabling the surplus local production to be marketed.
The report and most of the amendments being discussed deserve our consideration and agreement.
When some people wonder how to convey the new possibilities opened up by the Treaty, the answer is easy.
Examples of this are the Community initiative REGIS and the POSEIMA, which is precisely the instrument enabling the measure being examined to be adopted.
The POSEIMA has positively but insufficiently contributed towards the Azores feeling more a part of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, effectively, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the frequent appearance on the agenda of items relating to fisheries threatens to turn us all into a kind of club of friends of fisheries, a club which is perhaps a little exclusive, with the same people always there, but which also has its positive aspects, in the sense that one is talking with parliamentary colleagues who know this dossier inside out.
More specifically, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, while Nos 3, 5, 5, 7 and 8 perhaps require a touch of redrafting.
So when the Commission presents a modified proposal, on the basis of both the amendments and the new information, we feel that Amendments Nos 13 and 15 will then be superfluous.
Article 6 seems sufficiently precise about the nature of the report to be presented by the Commission, while Amendment No 16, which concentrates only on the financial aspects, could bring a partial evaluation of the measures in question.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the Commission hopes that, in a situation of temporary regulation which is becoming permanent, this regulation, which you have given a positive welcome, can also give the sector that stability of prospects which is one of the cardinal elements of a vision, also economic, of the entire fisheries sector.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
VAT on telecommunications The next item is the report (A4-0376/97) by Mr Cox, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 77/388/EEC concerning the value added tax system applicable to telecommunications services (COM(97)0004 - c4-0100/97-97/0030(CNS)).
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that the Commission proposal is a timely one and in that regard welcomes it.
It is a useful response to a global telecommunications revolution which in substance has bypassed some of the relevance and nature of the existing VAT system as it applies to that sector.
The proposal sets out to address a very fundamental problem, namely that European Union telecom suppliers pay value added tax in respect of their EU clients but third country suppliers pay no such tax in respect of their EU clients.
Consequently, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was of the opinion that this affords a pause for thought, a chance to clarify questions and issues, and then to see how to deepen and perhaps add value to the basic Commission proposal which we have been considering.
I think it is a most complex subject and difficult to explain.
Mr Cox has explained very clearly that the technology has outpaced the VAT systems.
We can quite understand why the Council has put into place the derogations that Mr Cox has outlined.
Although, clearly, the Council proposal can hold in the short-term - which, in a sense, removes some of the pressure both on this Parliament and the Commission - nevertheless the problem will exacerbate rather than diminish.
Clear proposals from the Commission would be received with great interest by members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
In this specific case, we are justified in accepting the Commission's proposal with the addition of the new line s) to Article 9 paragraph 2 of Directive 7788/EEC; but as we agreed, its application should depend on a report to be submitted to Council and the European Parliament in which the Commission will have to explain in detail all the progress made in the direction of the final system, the impact of the liberalization of telecommunications on tax receipts and the effects of the exceptions introduced in the meantime.
I am not against the temporary solutions which have been sketched out.
I wonder - it does no harm just this once - if there should not be a world doctrinal reflection and if, perhaps, the method of complete tax exemption, with all the risks this means for traditional commerce and virtual commerce, or the method of specific taxation are not worth studying.
Viable internal markets demand viable structures.
It is necessary to focus on a taxation and VAT system at the European level, and not just at the national one.
The Council now accepts a system whereby all telecoms in every Member State pay VAT directly to the inland revenue office in their customer's country.
Mr President, on 1st January 1998, the liberalization of telecommunications services became a reality in the European Union.
The first relates to the modification of the territorial of Community VAT and specifies that VAT must always be applicable if a telecommunications service is delivered to a Community client: the consumption in fact takes place in the Community.
The second specific purpose aims at confirming the existing law of the sixth directive, by which a Community telecommunications operator has fiscal obligations only in the Member State in which it is established.
To impose registration on it in each Member State in which it has a client, would end up cancelling the greater part of the benefits attaching to liberalization, because the operator would have to keep specific accounts or even have recourse to a fiscal representative in each of these Member States.
Your rapporteur, Mr Cox, has carefully examined the consequences of this approach and proposes various amendments in his report, adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I can tell you that the Commission has no difficulty in accepting Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 4.
By contrast, Amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7 are not acceptable, in the opinion of the Commission, because they would postpone the entry into force of the proposed directive until a report has been drawn up on elements which are in reality linked to the present proposal.
In fact, the progress towards the introduction of a new common VAT system is independent of the creation of a fiscal system for telecommunications services.
The liberalization of these services will certainly have less impact on the VAT yield than the absence of a VAT system will have on the success of liberalization.
Furthermore, the implications of the application of a single quota to telecommunications remain, at the end of the day, without objective, because I understand that Parliament is not asking for the introduction of such a single share.
Given that the Commission's approach is not in question and, lacking concrete suggestions for improvement, the Commission considers it particularly inappropriate for the signals put out to the operators to seem to deprive them of the possibility of having, in a short time, a fiscal framework capable of allowing them to benefit fully from the liberalization of telecommunications services, to the profit of our companies and all the consumers.
The Commission was asked, amongst other things, to clarify the reasons why it was not possible to maintain in force the principles provided for in the derogations, the 15 derogations, including them directly in the sixth directive.
Mr President, in view of the late hour, I do not wish to re-open any of the points of substance in the debate.
If I understood him correctly he said with regard to exploring a single rate of value added tax for the telecom sector that it may be pointless at the end of the day but that in any event the European Parliament is not asking for it and since there is no proposal the Commission, in a sense, is not taking on the possibility.
The debate is closed.
