I can testify to what you say, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
That will therefore be corrected. (Parliament approved the Minutes) European Council in Turin The next item is the report by the Council and statement by the Commission on the outcome of the meeting of the European Council in Turin on 29/30 March 1996.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Turin European Council marked an important new stage on the road to determining the nature of the process of European integration in the future.
From this point of view the Turin European Council fully achieved the objective we had set ourselves.
In fact, the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference clearly establishes the issues to be given particular attention in negotiating the revision of the Treaty.
The democracy and efficiency of the institutions has always been one of the great strengths of the Union.
These characteristics will be maintained by adapting mechanisms and procedures to changed circumstances and to the prospect of further enlargement of our Union.
The strengthening of the Union's capacity for external action is therefore the third major subject for the conference, covering identification of the general principles of the common foreign and security policy, better definition of the procedures to be followed by the structures for operating this policy, as well as more visible financial solidarity and progress towards the creation of a European defence identity in view of the 1998 expiry date written into the Western European Union Treaty.
The official documents presented by the governments of some Member States confirm the existence of differences, indeed profound differences, on essential issues.
The important thing is that the conference can now begin to develop its own autonomous dynamic, as often happens in such cases, so that, on the basis of the guidelines that emerged at Turin, it can identify the most appropriate solutions for achieving the aim which remains common to all the Member States, over and above the different visions that now exist, and that aim is to prevent the dissipation of the heritage of achievements which have guaranteed our peoples forty years of peace, freedom, democracy and prosperity.
This document, which coincides in many significant respects with the positions expressed by the European Parliament in its March resolution on the conference, confirms the commitment of my country to that ever closer union between the peoples of Europe which is written into the Treaty and which all the main political, economic and social forces in Italy regard as a common heritage.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Madrid European Council granted a mandate for defining ways in which the European Parliament could be closely associated with the work of the conference.
I shall not go over the various stages of that negotiation again here, as our Minister for Foreign Affairs and Under Secretary Ferraris, who is here today, have already had an opportunity to illustrate its progress.
The Italian presidency has never made a secret of its preference for an association of the European Parliament inspired by the formula successfully applied during the work of the reflection group.
The Ministers for Foreign Affairs therefore drew up a compromise solution which the Turin European Council subsequently approved.
This results in an associative model which represents a substantial advance on the previous Intergovernmental Conference and will allow the European Parliament to express its own views on all the issues on the agenda of the conference.
The Italian presidency will ensure that this agreed formula is implemented in a spirit of total cooperation with this Parliament and has demonstrated its willingness to do so by inviting President Hänsch and two of your representatives to the inauguration of the conference on 29 March.
I would like to add my personal thanks for the helpfulness and cooperation shown towards the presidency in the difficult week of negotiations on the method of associating the European Parliament with the conference.
We have given these countries initial information on the work of the conference, in accordance with the decisions of the Madrid European Council and we consider this an inescapable political requirement.
The Turin agenda is realistic yet ambitious.
It will not be easy to meet the commitment to complete the negotiations within the first six months of 1997.
We hope to be able to conclude a first reading of all the issues mentioned in the conclusions of the European Council on the basis of working documents which the presidency has already sent to you, and which contain specific options so as to avoid a repetition of the general debate which has already taken place in the reflection group.
The presidency intends to submit its own interim report to the Florence European Council to provide a basis for the continuing work of the conference.
The Turin European Council debated the problems of unemployment and job creation in Europe at length.
It discussed the appropriateness of including an ad hoc title on employment objectives in the next Treaty: this is one of the options to which the final document opens the way.
The Council also dwelt at length on initiatives that could be taken more immediately.
The Commission's White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment provided a comprehensive analysis of the existing difficulties and a courageous plan of action to create the structural preconditions for a reversal of the trend in order to restore impetus to the European economy.
On that basis the European Council defined a comprehensive strategy and its content and detail has been successively improved at Essen, Cannes and Madrid.
Thus coordination and monitoring of national policies has begun and Community support measures have been launched to stimulate public and private investment in infrastructure, research, technological innovation and training in sectors with the potential to create new jobs.
It is also the presidency's intention to target maximum attention on the issue of employment at Florence, thus contributing to a more balanced public perception of the collective commitment to ever more widespread economic growth to the real benefit of all.
In this respect we are encouraged by the initiatives taken by other Member States, particularly the recent French memorandum which rightly emphasizes the need to safeguard the social model which has been the basis of progress and well-being in Europe and which should inspire us as we confront the challenges of globalization of the world economy.
A particularly important part of this campaign is the Tripartite Conference we shall be calling in Rome on 14 and 15 June, and it can usefully benefit from the thinking and contributions of the social partners in the framework of the round table called by the Commission for the end of April.
The European Council recognized the need to deal with this problem in a spirit of solidarity towards the Member State that has been worst hit.
The BSE issue also raises more general considerations about the need to handle complex issues without ideological prejudice and dogma.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of Turin was only a moment, significant but certainly not conclusive, in a presidency which we have set out to conduct effectively, realistically and credibly.
Last January our Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed before this very Parliament Italy's commitment to work in a spirit of service towards the institutions and for the development of the cause of European integration, which has constituted and will continue to constitute a constant in Italian policy.
It gives me particular satisfaction today to be able to affirm anew, before the representatives of the European peoples, that this commitment remains entirely valid for the whole course of our presidency, and equally, on the eve of important internal events, to assure you that the known and time-honoured policy of my country in favour of European integration will continue to be confirmed in the future because it is deeply rooted in the consciousness and aspirations of the Italian people. (Loud and sustained applause) Mr President, Mr President-in - Office, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 March in Turin, the European Council launched the Intergovernmental Conference.
It would not be acceptable to reform the Treaty without first convincing our citizens that Europe does really care about their problems.
The number of debates that have taken place before as well as in the wake of the European Council in Turin, on topics covered by the Conference and on Europe in general, is impressive.
The Commission intends to carry out its role with this in mind.
However, to keep it intact, we need to introduce the far-reaching reforms set out in the opinion put forward by the Commission on 28 February.
It is imperative that our citizens find, in the Union, a reliable reference point in those areas where Member States cannot cope alone, such as security, the environment, immigration, the fight against unemployment, and competition.
If Europe does not concern itself with the plight of its 18 million unemployed, then it has no meaning.
We cannot offer applicant countries membership of a Union that is neither sufficiently prepared nor democratic enough to welcome them.
The European Council had an exchange of views on a draft text which I put before the House at the sitting of 31 January 1996.
The Italian presidency also intends to convene a tripartite conference on growth and employment in Rome in mid-June for governments, the social partners and the Commission.
My aim is to encourage actions to combat unemployment.
I do not wish to impose my own ideas, but rather encourage a dialogue between governments and social partners, in order to boost confidence.
Governments and the social partners have a special responsibility to combat unemployment.
The Union can help by continuing its efforts to ensure that the task of establishing a single market is completed, that there is a policy on competition, and that employment features both in our own policies and in the Structural Funds.
The construction of trans-European networks, increased research, and support for the 17 million small and medium-sized businesses that alone account for 70 % of new jobs created within the Union, are all equally important issues.
Despite the difficulties arising from the situation in Italy, and contrary to the rather pessimistic forecasts that were widespread even in the European Parliament, at Turin the Italian presidency proposed a range of content for the conference which corresponds suitably to the expectations of Parliament and of everyone who believes in Europe.
It is positive that the reduction of issues to be dealt with in the new Treaty to the lowest common denominator, which we feared and still fear for the future, has been avoided, it is positive to have highlighted the need for a Union that is stronger because it is supported by a different balance between political union, economic union and monetary union, and it is also positive to have prioritized employment, the fundamental issue for the Socialist Group, which informed you of that personally, Mr Dini, in Rome before the start of the Italian presidency.
Let me give some examples: we are not satisfied with the role of the European Parliament as regards both the relative positions of Parliament and the Council during the conference, and the extension of codecision and assent by amendment of the Treaty, and also as regards the still unsatisfied request to put the signing of the future Treaty to a vote in Parliament, and so on.
The Union's social policy is still in limbo.
We are far from finding a satisfactory solution to fundamental problems relating to the institutional structure and the instruments of common foreign and security policy, even though these are already in place.
If the Tripartite Conference on growth and employment between governments, social partners and the Commission, and the next European Council in Florence, decide on a far-reaching and effective initiative on employment, the Union will have finally laid the foundations for renewed public confidence and it will be possible to say the Italian presidency ended with a flourish.
Seldom too in the history of European unification was the risk so great that we would lose control of the political goal to which our generation owes decades of peace and prosperity.
Will the globalisation of the world economy mean definitive structural unemployment for Europe which will make our society crumble, wipe out the social achievements and destroy once and for all the European social model, the fruit of a subtle blend of economic efficiency and solidarity between people?
The EPP Group can accept the way in which the European Parliament will be involved in the IGC.
Mr President, first of all I am delighted to welcome President Dini at last, on his first official visit to the European Parliament, after over 100 days of the Italian presidency and with barely more than sixty left.
Obviously this must not be allowed to come to an end on 30 June in Florence when, as President Dini mentioned, the six months of the Italian presidency ends.
Mr President, the future belongs to small and medium-sized enterprises.
We should think of Europe as a triangle: institutions and politics are its base, but its sides are the people of Europe, and I would add that they should not just be regarded as an electorate all the time, but, especially in this forum, as citizens.
Mr President, I want to thank the President-inOffice for being here just a few days before voting takes place in Italy, an event so important that it involves all the political and social forces of our country.
I thank him on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left, but also on behalf of my party in Italy, the Movimento dei Comunisti Unitari , which has had positive relations with his government and often been criticized for it.
Moreover we feel there is insufficient commitment to dealing with the most serious problem in every European country, the problem of employment.
The Italian presidency can continue to make a fine contribution, as it has done up to now, to the great commitment to make Europe a political union and not just a monetary union.
Presidents Hänsch, Santer and Dini, ladies and gentlemen, one particular image of the Turin summit sticks in my mind.
The project to revise the Treaty, of course, had a spanner in its works from the very beginning, and in our view the Turin Council summit has done nothing to alter that.
But above all, nothing has happened to resolve the underlying dilemma, in other words the basic decision to carry out the necessary revision of the Treaty in the framework of an intergovernmental conference along the lines of Maastricht I, which is simply not open to public scrutiny, which simply does not promote a transparent and democratic process based on popular participation.
Mr President, despite all the speeches and promises, the Maastricht Treaty appears increasingly to be the biggest stumbling-block to economic recovery and the fight against unemployment.
In Europe, the average rate of unemployment rose from 9.6 % to 11 % between 1990 and 1995.
Six million jobs have been lost and 55 million people are living on the poverty line.
How can we therefore expect France, which has only ten votes in the Council and 87 out of 626 Members of the European Parliament, to entrust its future to the representatives of countries which, while they may be friends, have not been elected by the French people?
A new referendum is now in order, in view of the insidious implementation of a federalist Treaty that only just secured enough votes in 1992.
But you come today, four days away from the Italian election.
You have come to Strasbourg to get coverage in the European press which you hope will reflect in publicity for you in Italy, because you are here to promote your election campaign, following the route of those who use foreign platforms to send messages to Italy and who would do better to keep silent.
In terms of substance, a list of issues was drawn up at Turin without indicating effective solutions for the great challenges at home and abroad: unemployment, lack of unity in foreign policy, lack of results in the common struggle against organized crime and drugs, lack of any effective will to build political unity, at least in parallel with economic union.
We have waited in vain for Italy and its European partners to confront the problem of the 20 million people currently unemployed, which could become 30 or 40 million if the enlargement takes place without first solving the unemployment problem of the existing European jobless, and promote the issue of political union which now seems to interest few people.
In Turin you talked about challenges, but you ignored the risk of making the Union look like the ideal model for destroying jobs in the eyes of the world, safeguarding positions of privilege for those lucky enough to be in secure categories and protecting certain sectors which are almost always unproductive.
This state of stagnation stands in the way of the creation of new wealth.
We hope that in the short time remaining to the Italian presidency the next government will be equal to the task of restoring the prestige Italy is entitled to.
Welcome Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to welcome a delegation from the Interparliamentary Organization of ASEAN, who are here to take part in a meeting with our colleagues from the Delegation for relations with the ASEAN Member States.
On behalf of our entire House, may I bid you a warm welcome to the European Parliament and wish you every success in the work you are about to begin.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the AIPO, welcome to the European Parliament! (Loud applause) European Council in Turin (continuation) Mr President, I have listened with great interest to the views expressed this morning by honourable Members of the European Parliament.
In any case the fact remains - and I think it is indisputable - that employment problems have to be solved primarily through measures taken by the national governments.
I have also noted with great interest what has been said about how important it is for the Intergovernmental Conference, in examining the issues before it, to take a long term rather than a short term view and look to a more distant horizon to find high profile solutions for those issues.
At that meeting it was not a matter of deciding which countries would take part in monetary union from day one, series A countries or series B countries.
At Verona, after some discussions which had been specially requested by certain Member States and Heads of Government, including myself, the ministers considered what measures should be taken in order to guarantee proper functioning of the single European market, under the hypothesis that not all Member States would be able to be or would want to be part of economic and monetary union from the start.
Agreement was also reached that, to keep the countries that introduce the Euro at the outset united with those which aspire to join monetary union in phase 3 as soon as possible, it would be necessary to have a new exchange rate mechanism, a new European monetary system, which would keep them united, with fixed rights and duties for those inside and for those remaining temporarily outside.
As regards my presence here today, I know that it is customary for whoever holds the presidency to be asked to report to the European Parliament after the sessions of the European Council.
That was my intention, and I welcomed the invitation from the presidency of the European Parliament to come on 13 March - that date was agreed at first - to report on the Turin European Council.
I think I have replied to the main points that have been made, but we will also take full account of each and every one of them. (Applause) Mr President-in-Office, rarely have we received information as important as that which you have given us about the Intergovernmental Conference, because it is mainly we who will be conveying a bad or a good impression to Europe's peoples and so influencing their ultimate judgement of your work.
Already, however, as the IGC, you have made the first historic mistake.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a little over a year, when the Intergovernmental Conference should have concluded its work, we will not be able to run away from the final decision about whether a united Europe becomes a reality or not.
It is actually through this awareness that the European Parliament, the only European institution elected by universal suffrage, is standing up for the need to finally introduce the clause on assent by the European Parliament to any amendment of the Treaty, and calls on the Council today to make the political commitment to ensure that when the future Treaty is signed and ratified it will not go through until it has been approved by a vote of the European Parliament.
For us this is obviously a fundamentally political point, even more than it is an institutional one, and it is even more important than the actual association of the European Parliament in the process of revision and reform of the treaties.
The European Union and its Member States have a number of very major political, social and economic problems to confront over the next few years.
Policies will have to be developed which are capable of generating economic growth and new jobs for the millions of unemployed; of tackling international crime and drug smuggling; of settling the difficult question of the future funding of Europe from the year 2000 onwards and of moving forward with the single currency project.
At the same time existing Member States will have to prepare the way for the accession of up to 10 or even 15 new Member States from Central and Eastern Europe.
The likely accession of these countries will provide all Europe with a unique opportunity to work together for a peaceful and secure future.
A straightforward redistribution of the existing resources from the structural funds and the common agricultural policy will result in the Union's agricultural regions taking on a disproportionately large share of the cost of enlargement.
After the IGC conference there will be a wide-ranging public debate in each of the 15 EU countries and in some cases a referendum before the ratification process can be completed.
Mr President, the conclusions reached at the Turin Summit from my point of view deal very correctly with a certain number of extremely important points concerning the revision of the Treaties, although it has to be recognised in certain cases that we have not got any further than a few platitudes.
We do note, however, certain omissions which are a cause for concern, but I would like to begin with the points which we feel are more positive.
It is recognised that the fight against unemployment must be our main priority - this calls for an economic policy which is orientated towards stability, greater competitiveness and far swifter growth.
We are certain that the 15 heads of state and government will not call into question this principle because it is vital to European construction and must underlie all of its policies.
Secondly, I believe that if the procedures approved in Essen are to bear fruit, they must be improved.
In our view, it would help to make employment a truly European issue - and this is essential - if a chapter on employment were to be inserted in the Treaty.
But I should also like to mention the status of the European Parliament, and to acknowledge the considerable effort which the Council and the Italian presidency have made in order to reach a solution.
Naturally, there are points of view to be defended, and in this respect, I believe that the interinstitutional conference format should be retained, since in the end, it brings together 15 government representatives against - if I dare use the expression - 15 representatives of the European Parliament.
I believe that the interinstitutional conference, which paid dividends at the time of the Maastricht Treaty, can be revitalized and improved, but that it is crucial in terms of the role of the European Parliament vis-à-vis the Intergovernmental Conference.
This is thus another example of the fact that today the policy of convergence is the biggest single stumbling block in the fight against unemployment in Western Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will reply briefly to the speeches honourable Members have made and in particular the last speech by Mrs Dury.
And this also applies to other comments honourable Members have made about citizenship, about pooling a common heritage, about border security, multi-speeds, and all the various points which have been raised.
Italy has fought - successfully, in my view - to have Parliament associated with a conference which is indeed intergovernmental but in which the governments have need of the suggestions, the advice, the support and the encouragement of Parliament.
On behalf of the presidency then, and I would also like to say on behalf of Italy, we cannot but thank Parliament for the attention it will devote to the Intergovernmental Conference and the advice it will be able to give.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Madam President, the White Paper on adapting to the internal market, which is the basis for our opinion, provides an excellent indicator for membership of the Union.
The speed at which they move towards accession and the ground they have to cover will dictate the time at which they can accede to the Union.
The path indicated can be travelled voluntarily, nothing is being forced.
The rule of law and democracy and the creation of a responsible, well organised society is very much in the interests of the Union and the applicant countries.
The IGC will have to prove that the present Member States take enlargement seriously.
The report emphasises the need for mutual cooperation between the relevant applicant countries.
The report also emphasises the social aspects because a situation of major changes can also lead to significant social harm in the applicant countries and so even undermine confidence in the forthcoming accession.
The report contains many sections because there were so many draftsmen of opinions.
The debate on security policy is also echoed in this report, particularly in the section on EU security guarantees or indirectly via the WEU and the possibly imperfect overlap of our membership with NATO.
It is not possible, as one of the amendments says, that every time we take a decision we must wait until we have a complete insight into all the financial repercussions of the accession.
It will be a very long time before we have a complete picture and we must not do anything to depart from the strong stance we have taken in favour of enlargement.
Madam President, the White Paper on the preparation of the associated countries for membership of the internal market of the European Union only deals with agricultural aspects in a small way.
It deals with guidance for the associated countries relating to some agricultural sectors and connected with veterinary checks, the free movement of goods, phytosanitary products and fodder, and the requirements for marketing certain products.
To this end the Oostlander report takes substantial note of the European Commission guidelines which are very clear, very precise and do not leave room for subjective interpretation.
The problem for agriculture is a problem of outlook.
In my opinion this constitutes a good starting point for ensuring that the whole of European agriculture spends less on traditional support to markets and more on structural policy and rural development.
Madam President, the Economic Affairs Committee is in favour of enlargement but disagrees with the Oostlander report on its timing.
An overhasty accession, in other words before the applicant countries and the Union itself are ready, is not in the interests of either the applicants or the Union.
First of all the Union must through the IGC re-assert its authority to take decisions and become more democratic.
The applicants must have grown sufficiently strong in terms of their economic and social development to stand up to the tough competition on the internal market without protective measures.
Madam President, to deal with energy in the countries of Eastern Europe in just one minute would almost be a record!
But I am going to try and be extremely brief, if not terse, and say simply that the recommendation contained in the Oostlander report touches on two main points.
I personally had suggested that the Commission should organize a regional energy conference in these countries, with a view to encouraging diversification.
Firstly, the transposition of the Community's laws into the national legislation of each of the countries concerned, with particular attention being given to social and environmental requirements, will involve a huge legislative effort.
Similarly, a revision of the common agricultural policy must prevent increased rural desertification and serve to maintain the standard of living of the Union's farmers.
Secondly, competition rules must be applied to ensure that the policy is effective, and that legal harmonization in the social and economic fields produces equal conditions for the undertakings on both sides - the applicant countries and the European Union.
Madam President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights welcomes the White Paper.
Secondly, many countries of central and eastern Europe are plagued by indescribable poverty and social deprivation.
In order to avoid undesirable social repercussions in the countries of central and eastern Europe and in the EU Member States themselves, a phased plan is needed for the gradual integration of the central and eastern European states into the internal market.
The necessary integration of the countries of central and eastern Europe must be managed judiciously and in a socially responsible manner.
Otherwise the unwanted social side-effects of such integration could jeopardize the gratifying democratic developments in the applicant countries and their commitment to the idea of a common European home.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the accession of the countries of central and eastern Europe will bring about some very profound changes, not least to the regional policy of the European Union.
At the present time, regional policy rather tends to play a minor role in the European Commission.
Finally, let me make a comment that applies not only to regional policy but also to our entire approach to the countries of central and eastern Europe.
Some even call them the CCEEs or PECO.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of the European Union to include some central and eastern European countries represents an enormous challenge in the cultural sphere as well as in the domains of education and the audiovisual media.
Although in its White Paper the Commission only deals with the economic aspects of accession, it is quite clear that this can only be one part of the accession process.
There is a danger that the countries of central and eastern Europe will see this document as an indication that harmonization of their market economies with the internal market is the only important criterion at the end of the day.
The European Parliament and the Oostlander report have made this point very clearly.
Yet peace and security also means freedom for crime and terrorism.
Therefore, Madam President, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs will be holding a conference in June, with representatives from the parliaments of all the Central and Eastern European countries, which will examine these issues over two days of intensive dialogue.
The commitment of Europe, and especially of its Parliament, can not only help to analyse and evaluate sources of danger but can also be a means of identifying numerous opportunities for energy saving, efficient management of resources, strategic environmental legislation and so on.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Institutional Affairs regards enlargement as both a political necessity and a historic opportunity for Europe.
However, we have stressed the fact that if the European plan is to be viable, the new Treaty must first of all provide for institutional instruments that meet the requirements of an enlarged Union.
In this report we are giving a political signal, telling them that we await them in the Strasbourg family.
These women need to know what they can expect from membership of the European Union.
The two points I want to make are as follows.
The tension is obviously there because we on the one had want to give these countries the chance to develop their economy but on the other hand, Madam President, it is becoming extremely difficult for our people to accept that they must meet these more stringent requirements while vehicles from eastern European countries do not need to come anywhere near meeting these requirements.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, back in the summer of 1993 the European Council decided that those countries of central and eastern Europe which wanted to join the European Union could do so.
They relate to the development of democracy in those countries, but above all they relate to harmonization of those states' economic and legal systems to the acquis communautaire , to the development and the aims of the European Union.
President Dini stated this morning that preparations for enlargement are also on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We want to modernize the European Union.
We want to guarantee stability in Europe, both now and in the long term.
We want to secure the future of the entire population of the European Union, which means being prepared to offer the countries of central and eastern Europe an honest assessment of their prospects of acceding to the European Union and hence of playing a part in our common development.
Madam President, I speak not only on behalf of my group but as chairman of the Joint Parliamentary Committee with the Czech Republic and as someone who believes that the reintegration of Europe is both a duty and a joy.
For these countries, the European Union has always been an ideal, because in their eyes, it represents a success in three areas: democracy, security and prosperity.
Furthermore, the European Union has grown larger and more complex and cannot admit new countries without taking substantial precautions to ensure that its cohesion is not weakened.
First of all, these countries must share our aims and values.
They must accede in the hope of sharing not only in our prosperity, but in everything that gives meaning to Europe, above all democracy.
Secondly, while the countries of Central and Eastern Europe clearly do not form an indissoluble bloc and will not all join the Union at the same time, it is nonetheless important for them to cooperate in preparing themselves for accession.
Cooperation on a regional level will accustom them to this.
This will be easier still, once there has been an in-depth discussion on NATO and its aims in a world that is no longer bipolar, as well as on ways of securing Russian cooperation in revising security structures.
To appease Russia, not by giving in to its demands, but through an exhaustive dialogue, is a crucial element in the process of enlargement.
Madam President, now that the IGC has started it is not merely necessary but also very desirable that a signal should go out from Parliament to the associated countries in central and eastern Europe.
In this resolution Parliament rallies behind the view of the Commission and the Council.
The Commission must present its opinions on all the applicant countries soon after the IGC negotiations.
The Commission's White Paper is a very useful tool in this exercise.
The consensus between the institutions on the procedure to be followed will enable an accession which has been well prepared.
The political decisions to allow these countries to accede has been taken once, twice, three times over and there is no way that the Budget Committee can put a spoke in the wheels just by not having decided how much it is going to cost.
Madam President, like the rapporteur, we are in principle in favour of enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, since we believe that a united Europe is inconceivable without their participation.
We believe that enlargement must be a gradual and considered process, at the end of which at least three things must be guaranteed: firstly, that it does not result in the creation of a multi-speed Europe; secondly, that the goal of economic and social cohesion is maintained; and, thirdly, that it has a minimum social impact in the applicant countries, for which integration into the internal market must not mean brutal deregulation.
We in the Green Group see eastward enlargement as the current political goal of the European Union.
After all, it is not only the countries of central and eastern Europe that have to prepare to move in step with the European Union.
This would resolve neither the social nor the democratic conflicts in those countries.
Expecting the countries of central and eastern Europe to embrace the principles of the common agricultural policy is a step in the wrong direction.
The European Union has no option but to prepare for this enlargement by reforming its structural and agricultural policies.
Such reform is essential if we are to shift our agricultural policy from export-orientation to integrated rural development and to a common agricultural policy that will guarantee economic and social cohesion for all Member States, including new ones.
I also believe it is wrong to seek to develop a common security policy without preventive mechanisms and without the OSCE.
Madam President, the White Paper on which this report is based deals with a vast but well-defined subject: preparing the associated countries of Central and Eastern Europe for integration into the Union's internal market.
He has presented us with an overall political picture of enlargement, the reasons behind it, its effects, and the conditions which have to be fulfilled in order for enlargement to be successful.
The 15 opinions of the specialist committees have enabled us to cover a wide spectrum of issues.
Just think of the progress already made: for example, a 7 % annual increase in GNP in both Poland and the Czech Republic.
Naturally, this White Paper on the internal market will be supplemented by others.
This subsequent work will allow progress to be assessed, but above all it will encourage the efforts made by the applicant countries, as well as ourselves.
Nobody puts a question mark against the White Paper's and the report's principal political objective: peace and stability in Europe.
The plan is for our eastern neighbours to be subjected to the conditions laid down by the European Union.
I will admit that social market economy is linguistically creative, but unfortunately politically impossible.
Madam President, in the report on the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to the European Union, I was particularly struck by the constant references to democracy and human rights.
Madam President, we should not lose sight of what the Oostlander report is all about: it is a response to the Commission's White Paper and it is not Parliament's definitive decision on enlargement.
The Committee on Budgets did not submit any amendments to the report for the simple reason that we are awaiting the outcome of a public hearing next month on the cost of enlargement.
Parliament's position on enlargement deserves something far better than a report of this kind.
For the first time, the states within the boundaries of Europe can become a community devoted to peace.
On 7 May the committee will stage a hearing on the financial aspects of enlarging the European Union, which will culminate in the use of its right of initiative to table a report.
The purpose of this, however, is not to demonstrate that the whole thing is too expensive but on the contrary to seek ways of achieving our political objectives, in other words enlargement, while bearing in mind that such schemes depend on popular support in both the European Union and the applicant countries.
Both the Oostlander report and the Christodoulou report on the financial aspects of enlargement are intended as a signal to the Council to institute concrete measures at the IGC and thereafter with regard to the forthcoming enlargement.
It tackles many aspects of enlargement of the Union, including the budget, education, social affairs, the second and third pillars.
Among other things they include the tremendous legislative task facing the countries of central and eastern Europe to adapt their national legislation to the internal market.
My conclusion is simple.
Madam President, there is no doubt that enlargement is being promoted by the dominant powers in the European Union, for ideological and geopolitical reasons.
Nevertheless, the negotiations which will begin after the Intergovernmental Conference must concentrate on establishing the conditions that are required to make integration a politically constructive process.
Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia have all made tremendous efforts in order to join the Union.
We must not deceive them, and must therefore show, without resorting to either populism or paternalism, that we have the political will to include them among our number.
In the first place we shall have to study the place of future EU Member States within the Western European Union and NATO.
At the same time we must work towards strengthening the common foreign and security policy within the context of the IGC because with enlargement we shall be taking on important responsibilities in the field of foreign policy.
At the same time membership of the European Union also means for new member countries a certain guarantee of security within the common foreign and security policy but also because of its membership per se.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to commend Mr Oostlander on his excellent in-depth report.
The 15 present Member States of the Union have practically all waged war on each other during the course of the last seven or eight centuries.
The arrival on the scene of other nations provides a chance for reconciliation in a continent that has experienced more wars than almost any other.
I would also stress that the final choice of dates does not lie with the European Parliament, but with the Intergovernmental Conference.
I do not think it would be wise to take any risks, however small, in this respect.
We ask you to heed our message, Commissioner.
But we have now got ourselves into a position where everybody is throwing up their arms in horror at the enormous difficulties, and that is before we have even started the negotiations.
Madam President, I have listened with great interest and fascination this morning to the many Members who have spoken on this highly important subject of the enlargement of the European Union.
In a fairly short space he has managed to cover in detail the varying political views in this House, and he has produced a motion for a resolution which covers not just the White Paper and its implementation but also the more general question of the future enlargement.
At the end of the day, Madam President, this is about the European Union facing one of the biggest challenges since its foundation: the expansion to the east and south which will produce a union of more than 25 countries.
The Member States decided to further in this way the political, economic and social development of all peoples in Europe.
A successful Intergovernmental Conference is in the view of the Commission essential for enlargement.
The European Council in Madrid in December proclaimed a new phase in the process of enlargement of the Union and was challenged to define the procedure and the timetable for its preparation.
The Commission was instructed to produce a report on certain aspects of enlargement.
The European Council will resume its examination on the basis of these reports.
The Commission services continue to analyze the consequences of enlargement on the Union's policy as well as the situation in each of the applicant countries.
As you know the Commission will present its opinions on the applications as quickly as possible after the closure of the Intergovernmental Conference, expected to be mid-1997 if the IGC does in fact conclude.
These opinions will be accompanied by a so-called synthesis document in which the main horizontal questions relevant to the enlargement and the prospect of accession negotiations will be addressed.
The Commission will then produce a statement on the financial framework, after 1999, which takes account of the possible enlargement.
With regard to Cyprus and Malta, as you know, the decision was taken to start negotiations six months after the conclusion of the IGC.
But in addition to that the European Council expressed the hope that the preparatory negotiations on the accession of the countries of central and eastern Europe would 'coincide with the start of the negotiations with Cyprus and Malta' .
We fully support the broad outlines of the motion for a resolution.
The Commission has also to produce a detailed analysis of the financial system of the European Union as quickly as possible in order to present immediately after the IGC a communication on the financial framework of the Union after 31 December 1999 which takes account of a possible enlargement.
Finally, Madam President, paragraph 14 calls on the Commission to give the candidate countries the necessary assurances regarding their accession to the Union by drawing up minimum criteria which must be complied with.
Secondly, the existence of a functioning market economy and thirdly the ability to withstand the pressure of competition and market forces within the Union.
This important debate will undoubtedly be followed by many more.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the proposal to refer this back to committee is totally inappropriate, particularly for the reasons given.
In the voting list the amendment I am tabling on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party comes before the amendment tabled by the Green Group in the European Parliament.
That is why we should vote first on the more radical amendment proposed by the Green Group in the European Parliament and then on our amendment, which does not reject such research in principle but formulates very strict conditions for it.
Mr Liese, I cannot agree with you.
The House is sovereign in terms of the decisions it makes. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, this is a very minor amendment.
It was a very complicated vote. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I ask your indulgence to invite my colleagues who have not yet signed the declaration on autism to do so.
Parliament's decision is fully in keeping with the conclusions of the Barcelona Conference.
Furthermore, with regard to the fisheries sector, we must welcome the financial protocol annexed to the agreement, which amounts to ECU 500 million over four years.
The aid granted must serve to promote employment and development.
The European Union is showing solidarity in an important sector of the Moroccan economy.
This solidarity must also be displayed in other sectors.
It is for this reason that I regret the fact that the European Parliament is not also - in tandem with its assent to the fisheries agreement - adopting a position today on the association agreement, which has a more general scope.
A vote in favour is virtually certain, but we shall have to wait a few months before giving a boost to renewed general cooperation.
The conclusion of this agreement was possible because, despite the difficulties involved, the fundamental aspect prevailed: the clear political will, that is, as associated countries, to reach an agreement which was satisfactory to both parties.
We always believed that it was possible to reach a balanced and long-term agreement such as this: a compromise between parties whose positions were initially poles apart, but which made great efforts to find common ground.
We therefore acknowledge the efforts of the Spanish Government and the Spanish presidency of the European Union, the Commission, the Moroccan Government and His Majesty King Hassan II of Morocco - all of which have made possible the conclusion of this 1996 Fisheries Agreement between the European Union and Morocco.
Giving away with one hand what is received on the other is certainly not beneficial to all of those productive sectors involved, in particular for two of the less developed countries of the European Union; 5.Furthermore, there is the fact that the fisheries agreement is scheduled to last for four years with a more than doubtful renewal, whereas the trade agreement is set to last for ten years, at the end of which concessions made are irreversible.- Poggiolini report (A4-0092/96) Who could possibly object to better coordination in health policy?
Yet we voted against the proposal and did so for the following reasons.
The problem facing a policy on public health in many countries is the inability to pay for care.
Even the very definition of a hospital bed creates problems.
In my opinion the development of a worthwhile European policy on public health is a dream.
Let Europe concentrate its forces on other affairs.
If there is something which is true of the industrialized countries as a whole - or, with regard to what interests us more specifically, the countries of the European Union as a whole - it is the need to make fundamental choices in the field of public health policy.
I shall not go back over the reasons which led us to raise these issues, but whatever options are chosen in the future by the governments of right and left, North and South, whatever economic constraints they are subjected to, it is clear that one of the fundamental measures to be adopted before taking any decision is to carry out, at European level, a programme of assessment of the current state of, and probable trends in, Europe's health and health systems.
However, the majority in the Council preferred to restrict the programme to one of simple coordination - exploiting, as usual, the different traditions and reservations of the health sector and the budgetary constraints in this area.
The outline of the health monitoring system proposed by the Commission is certainly somewhat blurred, but whatever form this new instrument takes, we wish it to be practicable and effective.
The European Parliament also wished, in general terms, health professionals, NGOs and the paramedical sector as a whole to be more closely associated with the definition of the broad outlines of health policy.
In the Commission's own terms, the proposed health monitoring system is designed to: ' analyse the state of health of Europe's citizens and certain common factors such as nicotine and alcohol addiction, in the context of possible proposals for Community action; -assess the impact of the Community action programmes in the fields of cancer, AIDS and other communicable diseases, as well as that of all other programmes in the sphere of health education; -provide the Member States with health information as regards the health status of populations, lifestyles and health habits, living and working conditions, health protection, demographic and other social factors.
I repeat: medicine in the twenty-first century must be more resolutely focused on prevention.
I hope that this Commission proposal - even if I do not believe that it is as accomplished as the House would have wished - will constitute a first step towards establishing this medicine of tomorrow.
Leopardi report (A4-0091/96) In establishing the internal market and the free movement of goods and persons, the European Union must also promote compliance with Article 129 of the TEU, which states that the Community shall contribute towards ensuring a high level of human health protection.
Furthermore, the national health cards are subject to the standards and criteria governing information/registration applicable in the Member State in question, which restricts the scope for misusing information.
Given current technological development, enabling the creation of a health card useable in all the countries of the European Union and with a possible extension, in the short term, to all other countries in which it would be possible to store all possible information about a given person, in particular chronic disease, serious infections or allergies, blood group, vaccinations, agreement or not to blood transfusions or the transfusion of blood derivatives and an indication of whether or not the person wishes to be an organ donor, the family doctor to be contacted in the case of an accident, inter alia, while maintaining respect for confidentiality of data and medical secrecy.
And the second concerns acceptance of the card throughout Europe.
There are widely differing views in the EU on the basic principles of health policy, and the best method of ensuring quality for the individual is therefore through a decentralised health policy.
The Popular Movement cannot vote in favour of this report, in that we consider it to be far too narrowly conceived.
Taking into account the breaks in the sitting, this debate lasted less than two hours.
Finally, if I am to believe what you have just said concerning the list of Members wishing to give an explanation of vote, Mr President, I shall be the only person to speak on the general budget for 1994.
With regard to the Wynn report itself, I wish to say that although for the first time a statement of assurance was issued, pursuant to the Maastricht Treaty, which provides for this procedure, and although this statement of assurance was a negative one in respect of certain appropriations - payment appropriations - and the Court of Auditors estimated 4 % of the appropriations to be suspect, the discharge was not refused, just as it was not refused for 1992, despite very serious irregularities, or for 1993.
We cannot use a report, regardless of its substance, as a pretext for engaging in deliberations on structural or institutional problems.
It is for this reason that it did not vote in favour of Mr Wynn's report.
There is no real democratic control over the utilization of the European Development Fund, whilst in the Member States, development aid expenditure is controlled by the national parliaments.
Given that the principle of subsidiarity is now enshrined in the Treaties, abolishing the EDF and restoring the corresponding policies to the control of the Member States - which can manage them perfectly well on their own - would be a good example of a return to democracy.
The ARE Group's decision to vote against granting the Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Development Funds for the 1994 financial year is based on the following two reasons: the annual report of the Court of Auditors and the detailed arguments of both the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion make it abundantly clear that the way in which the EDF appropriations were utilized does not correspond to any rule of sound management; -furthermore, and this is the main reason, the European Parliament is called upon to grant discharge every year, even though it possesses neither the corresponding budgetary nor legislative powers: by supporting a discharge procedure of a purely accounting nature while not, at the same time, having the power of budgetary authorization, we are consenting to a confusion of powers which is prejudicial to Parliament's political authority, in the sense that we are agreeing to carry out a legal exercise which is not in keeping with our mandate.It is for this reason that I and my colleagues are reiterating our call for the EDF to be incorporated into the general budget.
Poggiolini report (A4-0051/96) Firstly, I should like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for his efforts to explain and shed light on Alzheimer's disease - a little-known illness which nevertheless represents a veritable health scourge which must be eradicated.
We cannot ignore the fact that by the year 2000, around 8 million European citizens will be affected.
The consequences of this irreversible degenerative disease are above all human.
Similarly, I would urge the Commission to draw up, in collaboration with the Member States, a white paper on the different approaches to Alzheimer's disease in the European Union.
In view of the constant rise in the incidence of Alzheimer's disease and the gradual ageing of the population, the European Union's response to the serious problems raised by this disease has been somewhat timid - particularly since more than 5 % of people over the age of 60 suffer from it.
On the basis of Article 129 of the EC Treaty, the European Union must launch an action programme to combat this disease, with priority being given to research.
I shall end by repeating that we can never emphasize enough the serious problems raised by this disease, in which the irreversible degeneration of the brain gradually reduces a human being to a purely vegetative state, with the resultant social consequences for the patient and his family.
In voting against the report on Alzheimer's disease, I am expressing dissatisfaction with the lack of an overall strategy within the health sector for rare diseases and, with it, European cooperation on these illnesses.
The incidence of Alzheimer's disease in advanced countries, where it is mainly concentrated, is already high.
The absolute number of victims is already considerable and comparable with that of other virus diseases, such as AIDS.
We can finally dare to talk about promoting the use of self-transfusion, something which until very recently was prohibited, for reasons which in fact were far more ideological than practical.
I have already had an opportunity - yesterday evening, in plenary - to express my support for the Commission communication and Mr Cabrol's report.
I also wish to stress the need for a large-scale information and awareness campaign on blood and blood donation, with a view to achieving self-sufficiency in Europe.
That must serve as a lesson for the future and prompt us to introduce even more stringent safety requirements.
I have chosen to vote against the report on safety in the blood sector and self-sufficiency in blood, because I see no special grounds why the Community should be self-sufficient in blood.
From this point of view, the directive of 14 June 1989 on blood derivatives was a dangerous one, in that it opened the way for the application of market laws to substances of human origin, with the resulting payments for blood donation and the growing penetration of the blood derivatives market by private companies.
The House was able to highlight these dangers during a special debate in September 1993.
The Commission was required to take account of Parliament's concerns in its communication of December 1994, which is the subject of this report.
On the basis of this principle, we are proposing to amend the 1989 directive in such a way as to free it from the application of market laws, by allowing Member States to insist on respect for the ethical principle of voluntary, unpaid donation before authorizing the placing on the market in their territory of a product derived from blood or plasma.
Similarly, we support all measures aimed at improving the Community's selfsufficiency in blood and blood products by encouraging voluntary, unpaid, anonymous donation, in particular through the information, education and motivation of the public, support for voluntary blood donor associations, the promotion of cooperation between the Member States and the holding of a European blood donation day.
Our position coincides with that outlined in the report by the Committee on the Environment - a report which we are all the more happy to support now that it has been improved and strengthened by our amendments.
Voluntary blood donor associations have long been pressing the Commission to take action in this important area of public health.
It is the trade in blood and the pursuit of profit which threaten to introduce the risk of contamination, through inadequate or lax controls and failure to comply with rules and time limits throughout the transfusion chain.
I therefore support the rapporteur's fundamental demands: the establishment of common standards throughout the European Union; respect for the principle of voluntary, unpaid donation in all the Member States; strict rules on the use of the blood collected, with particular attention being given to the selection of donors, the devising of uniform tests of the highest technical quality, the application of stringent storage requirements and the rational use of blood and blood derivatives.
In these circumstances, we are not surprised to find, in the summary of the European Council's conclusions, a lack of any clear vision of Europe's future.
However, the IGC is burdened with an even more serious problem: that of the single currency.
In reality, however, the preparations for the single currency are bringing to light a number of serious institutional problems which remain to be resolved.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - and ushers - we know very well that under the cover of what is assumed to be a federalist goal - organizing the deepening of the Union in preparation for its widening - the aim of the Intergovernmental Conference in Turin is to lay the foundations of a European super-state whose centralizing function will only increase.
The Member States have agreed to pay 70 % of the cost of slaughtering old British cows at the end of their productive life.
In fact, these two areas are connected, since unemployment is provoked by international competition, immigration and the world monetary disorder - all things which concern both economic and foreign policy.
Having played a decisive role in the victory in the Second World War, in 1989, the United States won the cold war with the Soviet Union.
The United States is in a position to lay down the law to the international community.
It is at the root of both the relocations which are leading to the rise in unemployment in the Member States, and the increasing pressure to reduce wages and even the purchasing power of the mass of workers.
In these circumstances, the IGC will bring no improvement, other than in procedural details.
It is in this light that I cast my vote on the joint motion for a resolution.
For the French National Front, the debate on the work of the Intergovernmental Conference provides a further opportunity to condemn here in the House the anti-national, federalist, centralizing and bureaucratic logic of the present model of European integration.
The Europe of the Maastricht Treaty - with its rationale, its working methods and its policies - is a machine designed to crush peoples and nations in a kind of historic, cultural, social and economic revisionism, which seeks to impose on the real Europe - rich in the culture of its peoples and nations - a single, reductive and destructive model.
In any event, the National Front demands that the peoples of Europe should be directly consulted in a referendum to decide on the approval or rejection of Maastricht II.
Increasing unemployment and poverty in Europe will not be solved by a further expansion of the EU's political influence.
Instead of addressing the burning issues that the EU is already facing and will face in the foreseeable future, the review conference provided for in the Maastricht Treaty is restricted to institutional reforms in the narrowest sense.
Oostlander report (A4-101/96) Mr President, everyone here is convinced that the European Union's strategic priority in the coming years will be enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which share our values and history, and which already have association agreements with the Union.
The Turin European Council gave the Intergovernmental Conference a mandate to seek solutions, but regrettably failed to provide guidelines for a specific vision of the future institutional architecture of an enlarged Europe.
Because if it is difficult to take decisions unanimously in an organization with 25 members, it is unacceptable to take decisions by majority in an organization with 25 disparate members.
In reality, the only solution is to abandon the dogma of institutional unity and accept variable geometry.
Mr President, I subscribe entirely to the views expressed by my colleagues, and I shall therefore confine myself to making three specific points.
This tendency is to be found in the Oostlander report on which I am making this explanation of vote together with my colleague Mr Van der Waal, on whose behalf I also speak.
That is unacceptable to us on both moral and security policy grounds.
That is necessary to prevent any arbitrary accession of new countries.
Good neighbourliness is important, especially in international relations, but before one invites the neighbours into one's own house one should have a good think.
But the fact that there is a price to be paid and that there may even be drawbacks is often passed over or even forgotten.
Such an all important political issue as accession, with its implications for the future and the very existence of the European Union, cannot be decided on reasons of preferences or prejudices.
We, the undersigned, have voted for the report.
We believe, as does the report, that the Eastern Europe states should be able to accede to the EU but we would also stress how important it is for the people in each of those countries to be given the opportunity to express their views on membership.
The Belgian National Front does not rule out these dangers, but is amazed at such caution on the part of parliamentarians who, for the most part, recently approved a customs union with a non-European country, Turkey.
The authors of the report consider that enlargement to the east is undoubtedly possible in theory, but will be far more difficult in practice.
The purpose of this report, like that of the Commission white paper on the same subject, is to review the progress made by the associated countries in their transition towards accession to the European Union.
The main obstacle to the smooth progress of a transition which should logically end in accession is, to my mind, the over-cautiousness of the Union Member States.
The report on the Central and Eastern European countries' participation in cooperation in the internal market is very well thought out.
The rapporteur deserves praise for his excellent analysis of the problems to be solved as part of the preparations for the forthcoming enlargement of the EU.
With regard to the arrangements for the accession negotiations with the new Member States, I would also agree with the rapporteur when he stresses, at the beginning of his report, that the negotiations with the associated countries should start at the same time .
The applicant countries are very different, which can duly be taken into account only by conducting accession negotiations with each country separately.
It is vital, however, that the EU countries are not, from the very start, guilty of politically influenced discrimination towards the new Member States, as this would be seen by public opinion in Central and Eastern Europe as being an indication that some applicant countries were 'more welcome in the EU' than others.
It is important that the negotiations with the countries of Eastern and Central Europe which have applied for membership should begin simultaneously.
The future enlargement of the European Union, be it to the countries of central and eastern Europe or to include Malta and Cyprus, is a fact of enormous political importance which deserves our support in principle, for which it is fundamental that the will freely expressed by the peoples of the applicant countries should be manifested and respected.
Since this is a question of principle it is equally fundamental that the accession processes should be painstakingly studied and that there should be a thorough explanation of all of the ramifications of these accessions, both on the European Union and all its Member States as well as the applicant countries themselves.
On the other hand, a European Union with 20 or 25 countries requires and demands far-reaching consideration as to the future Community budget, which means having at our disposal the bases and perspectives enabling us to respond effectively to needs arising from enlargement, without calling into question the legitimate aspirations of the peoples of the existing Member States, in particular in respect of the common agricultural policy, the structural funds and other Community policies.
Just one last comment to say that we do not think it admissible that we should make acceptance of new countries in the Union depend on their prior accession to NATO or any other international military organisation, nor that this should even be hinted at as a condition for accession, especially since this could well give rise to political and military instability in eastern Europe, in particular in relation to Russia.
Tackling the problems and challenges faced by modern society requires the development of exchanges and cooperation in every sphere.
The establishment of economic and political cooperation undoubtedly requires efforts on everyone's part, but we cannot oblige the applicant countries to adjust their structures and legislation to comply with the Maastricht Treaty without taking into account the possible economic and social consequences, and without allowing them express their views.
The bloc mentality and military designs of organizations such as NATO or the Western European Union will have no place in the Europe of the future.
The report contains advances - regarding in particular the defence of human and minority rights, and the intention not to encourage privatization in the fields of culture, education and health, in the interests of social cohesion.
I address our greetings to the Ukrainian delegation and wish it every success in its contacts and meetings with our Parliament.
It is now 10 years since the Chernobyl accident occurred.
Various organizations have analysed the effects on health, the environment and the economy.
For example, the WHO, the Commission and other international organizations estimate the number of deaths definitely attributable to the direct effects of radiation at about 30.
The conditions for world-wide cooperation have never been as good as at present.
At the end of this week the G7 countries are to hold a summit on nuclear safety with President Yeltsin in Moscow, which President Kuchma will also attend.
Such a meeting, which is to deal exclusively with co-operation in these areas, would have been quite unthinkable 10 years ago.
The second example is the Commission's satisfaction at President Kuchma's decision to close down Chernobyl by the year 2000.
It covers the restructuring of the energy supply sector, an energy investment programme, nuclear safety planning of the social repercussions, economic resources and implementation surveys.
Reactors of the Chernobyl type, the so-called RBMK reactors, have never been constructed outside the Soviet Union.
In 1986, the nuclear safety authorities and operators of nuclear power stations in the Community had learned from the Three Mile Island accident in the USA in 1979.
The Chernobyl accident confirmed the importance of these aspects and emphasised further the need for a well prepared disaster plan outside the actual nuclear power station.
The competent authorities in the Member States take account of all these aspects when authorizing the operation of nuclear plants.
For its part, the European Commission supports the development of these aspects of nuclear safety through numerous groups of experts and study activities.
Together, these activities contribute towards the further strengthening of safety consciousness and the safety of all bodies involved in the safe operation of nuclear plants.
This safety culture results, in turn, in an ongoing improvement of the level of safety in existing and planned plants.
The Nuclear Safety Convention drawn up under the auspices of The International Atomic Energy Organisation in 1994 will make a contribution towards global nuclear safety.
It has been signed by more than 50 states, including the 15 Member States of the Union, and the former Soviet Union.
Over and above all this, the European Commission will continue to strive for effective co-operation within the relevant areas with the states concerned, as well as in many other areas in the conviction that peace and democracy are the most important conditions for a stable society which is itself the most important contribution towards the safe use of nuclear energy.
At the horizontal level, a specific chapter has been devoted to nuclear safety and radiation protection, the fifth action programme on the environment and sustainable development, which covered all aspects of the problem - again Commissioner Bjerregaard has already mentioned this - including improvements in safety measures, preparation for radiation protection, management of radioactive waste, public information and awareness.
In the second place, the Council has been concerned to extend the content of these measures to the countries of central and eastern Europe as well as the CIS, primarily to protect the citizens of the Union from the consequences of a nuclear accident and to prevent another such accident occurring somewhere else, and has done this through the PHARE and TACIS programmes, both of which include a nuclear safety aspect.
But as I say, Commissioner Bjerregaard has already covered all these points in detail.
As regards structured dialogue on the environment, the ministers of the Union and the associated countries recognized, at the Luxembourg meeting of 1994, that the reduction of accident risk at nuclear power stations is a priority area for cooperation and, in October 1995, in the wider context of the Pan-European Conference on the Environment, the ministers of the associated countries strongly confirmed their commitment to proceed, as soon as possible, to the closure of dangerous nuclear plant.
This is a brief illustration of the policy lines which the Council has proposed and which I think it has followed with great consistency.
Immediately afterwards, at the Naples Summit of the G7 in July 1994, there was a highly satisfactory consensus of aims and convergence of effort as the Heads of State and of Government of the G7 endorsed the action plan drawn up at Corfu and announced an initial contribution of 200 million dollars, which is the equivalent of the package provided by the Union.
These form a really organic programme appropriately geared to sustaining the decision of the Ukrainian government to close the Chernobyl power station by the year 2000.
The problem of the so-called sarcophagus enclosing reactor no 4, the source of the explosion, is regarded as a priority.
It is certainly in the interests of the whole international community that this memorandum of understanding with the Ukraine be fully implemented within the set deadlines, applying the measures and methods as planned.
Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ten years of effort - little to show.
That, sadly, is the stark summary of developments since the Chernobyl reactor accident, for the RBMK-type reactors, fifteen in number, which are universally acknowledged to be unsafe, are still operating, in particular No 1 Reactor and No 3 Reactor at Chernobyl.
To reiterate the point in plain terms, the nuclear risk has not lessened since 1986 but has remained exactly the same.
The Commissioner has kindly given us a very comprehensive account of this effort.
We are also aware, on the other hand, that energy demand has fallen rapidly since 1990 and that there is no reliable least-cost planning analysis of the situation or an in-depth analysis of the actual energy demand and an efficient strategy for meeting it.
There is a realistic prospect of supplying energy without Chernobyl, without power stations.
Mr President, once again, we are discussing Chernobyl.
It has contributed scarcely ECU 300 million: a pittance.
Furthermore, Commissioner, I think that it would be a good thing if the Commission submitted to us a report containing some genuine data.
You said that some reports refer to 30 deaths.
Clearly, there have been many more.
And we want rapid solutions, because absolutely nothing has been done for the last ten years.
You will have Parliament's full support, and I am sure that you will also have the support of the 15 Member States.
Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, this will be your data - the G7's - at the meeting in Moscow at the end of the year.
Mr President, I am expressing the feeling of my group, and at the same time the generally shared feeling of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy which I have the honour to chair.
I would merely remind you that in countries as far away as Germany thyroid cancers continue to increase cyclically as a function of the biological cycle, linked in turn to plants, animals and rain.
Certainly an important step was taken with the memorandum of understanding signed at Ottawa by the G7 countries.
Clearly our intervention in the Ukraine must proceed with caution so as not to deprive that country of 6 % of the energy it needs.
That will be the aim of our committee.
We are going to spend 18 months during which the French nuclear lobby - let us call a spade a spade - in which the French nuclear lobby is going to spend European taxpayers' money and we are not going to solve the problem of Chernobyl but we are just going to win markets in eastern Europe, we are going to win markets in Ukraine, because we cannot win them in any other OECD country, in order to finish off two Soviet nuclear power-stations without any guarantee of proper safety conditions.
You spoke about those in the former Soviet Union and in Eastern Europe.
The sum of ECU 550 million has already been pumped in from the PHARE and TACIS programmes.
We are categorically opposed to the completion of two reactors which are already in an absolutely desolate condition and cannot be properly completed.
In western Europe we have many reactors that are no better than those.
Could I ask everyone a question who may be listening to this: will the next nuclear disaster following Chernobyl be in Chernobyl?
Yet as my colleague here said, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is going to spend our money on two other reactors as a price for the agreement of closure.
If we do not know how to destroy the monster we create, have we any right to create any more monsters?
Mr President, Chernobyl has gone down in history as the biggest nuclear disaster of all times.
I fervently hope that the Ukrainian government will give its cooperation.
But the international community must recognise that this is a problem that is far too great for an individual country or group of countries to tackle alone.
The National Front, for its part, has been making its views on this subject clear since 1978.
In 1980, we campaigned in favour of civil protection, insisting on the need to build nuclear shelters.
And, in 1986, the disaster which we had been fearing for nearly ten years occurred.
On 30 April of that year, my husband, Jean-Pierre Stirbois, spoke in the French National Assembly to draw attention to the weakness of France's civil protection system with regard to nuclear, civil or military threats.
We should like to know, moreover, as my colleague said earlier, more or less where things stand.
Now we do not have sufficient concern to take the actions necessary to remedy the ecological, economic and social consequences which each year become more and more apparent to us and could hit us again at any moment.
The sarcophagus of the Chernobyl 4 nuclear reactor could be much better and more effective.
The original clean-up from the original disaster could have been done much better and more effectively.
Indeed, as regards the effects upon human health that have occurred in terms of cancer and other sicknesses, much more could and should have been done.
That sadly, is our biggest problem.
That sadly, is our biggest unachieved task.
Worse still, there remains a foolish determination to proceed with this uneconomic and unstable production of nuclear energy by construction of nuclear plants that could be more economically and safely replaced by the introduction of programmes of energy saving and power production from other sources.
Mr President, 10 years have now passed since the Chernobyl nuclear power station disaster.
The Finnish energy supply authorities consider that we need to build a fifth nuclear power station.
The abovementioned Chernobyl nuclear power station accident opened people's eyes to the dangers of nuclear power and increased the Finns' opposition to nuclear power to such an extent that the Finnish parliament has halted all new nuclear power station projects for the time being.
Secondly, we must concentrate on improving the safety of more modern nuclear power stations and develop programmes to save energy, to improve the cost-effectiveness of energy use and to promote safer forms of energy such as hydro-electric power, peat and natural gas.
As I have said, there is a great deal of opposition in Finland at present to nuclear power, which in practice prevents any further nuclear power stations from being built.
Here, in the European Parliament, too, there has been debate about European natural gas networks, and in this connection we Finns have proposed the inclusion among these networks of the 'Northern Gas Network' which integrates the networks of the Northern Member States by linking gas resources from Russia and Norway.
Although the Ukraine authorities have pledged to dismantle the plant by the year 2000 in exchange for international aid for the harnessing of alternative sources of energy, closure cannot come quick enough.
It is vital that the European Union plays a central and constructive role in ensuring the practical provision of resources under programmes such as TACIS.
Given the condition of many nuclear power plants there one cannot underestimate the importance of the programme.
However, this programme cannot work unless the European Union makes sure that sufficient resources and grants are available for TACIS to carry out its task.
Mr President, ten years ago over two million children were exposed to the fall-out from Chernobyl.
It was an accident that appalled the world and released 300 times more radioactivity than fell on Hiroshima.
Beyond the visible and immediate effects on children, the World Health Organization's scientists concluded that radioactivity has a range of effects on health, including higher rates of cancers and heart disease.
The IAEA at their conference in Vienna last week still deny these findings, although the Ukrainian, Russian and Belarussian delegations dispute their figures.
In my view, this is no more than a smoke-screen put up by the nuclear lobby - of which Electricité de France, Framatome and Siemens form part - which wishes to sell reactors to Russia and other former Soviet republics.
An accident at a nuclear power station, in the East or the West, is simply a question of a greater or lesser probability.
Please, do not finance the construction of any new nuclear reactors in the former Soviet Union!
I am convinced that an accident with the same radiological consequences as Chernobyl could happen there at any moment, and in my view, it is unacceptable that these reactors should still continue to operate, even if a European licence allows them to do so.
Mr President, ten years on from the explosion in the fourth reactor of the Chernobyl power station the emergency continues, above all in Belarus and the Ukraine.
In Belarus in 1994 and 1995 over 100, 000 people died from causes ascribable to the accident at Chernobyl and in the most affected regions (Gomel and Mogilev) the birth rate has collapsed from 17 to 10 per thousand since 1986, while the death rate has risen from 9-10 per thousand to 12-13 per thousand, a rise of over 33 %.
Furthermore, taking account of the fact that there could be an explosion with catastrophic consequences at the Chernobyl nuclear plant at any moment, as pointed out in a recent report commissioned by the European Union on the possibility of collapse of old pillars supporting the sarcophagus which was built around reactor no 4 after it exploded in 1986, the European Union simply must put pressure on the Ukrainian government to close the Chernobyl nuclear power station, and in the meantime it must provide the aid necessary to make up the electricity that the Ukraine would lose.
The European Union must also intervene through the TACIS and PHARE programmes with the countries of eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, so that they gradually abandon or convert the at-risk nuclear power stations.
Mr President, I should like to begin by expressing my disappointment to the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council.
However, it is estimated that we should need around 15 to 20 billion dollars to do everything the experts have proposed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use this debate to express my bewilderment at the fact that at last week's conference in Vienna, ten years after the reactor accident in Chernobyl, there was neither any new evidence presented on the overall extent of the disaster nor agreement on the immediate closure of the reactor complex in question.
There is a conclusive and authoritative study which demonstrates that upgrading the Mochovce reactor to western safety standards is not only shortsighted but downright impossible.
Ten years after Chernobyl the danger is ever-present, and despite the thousands of deaths the station continues to operate.
Mr President, have we not learned anything in the last ten years?
The EBRD now wants to make one billion dollars available for the completion of two reactors in Ukraine.
Mr President, on 20 December 1995, a memorandum of understanding was signed in Ottawa by the representatives of the G7, the European Commission and Ukraine.
This memorandum of understanding contains something good: the decision to shut down Chernobyl by the year 2000.
It also contains something very bad, however: the decision to complete work on the two nuclear power stations at Khmelnisky and Rovno.
Chernobyl and its aftermath are not only a problem for Ukraine and the other affected regions in Russia and Belarus, but a problem for Europe in its entirety.
Whether political lessons have been learned from the Chernobyl disaster must therefore be measured not only by the statements marking its anniversary but above all by the actual political measures taken.
A similar situation prevails at the Slovenian nuclear plant in Krsko.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak today about what lessons we have learned from the Chernobyl disaster - the full extent of which we are, of course, as yet unaware, since we do not know what consequences will be suffered by unborn generations or how the contaminated landscape will develop in years to come - I have to conclude that we have not learned the necessary lessons and that many years have passed without anyone taking the action that really ought to have been taken in the wake of the Chernobyl disaster.
Nuclear safety is indispensable, not only to the countries of central and eastern Europe but also to all the countries of the Union and the whole of Europe.
We have got a new word in our vocabulary now: the 'Belarus necklace' , applicable to a generation of children have had their throats slit from ear to ear to deal with their thyroid cancer.
We have done too little to alleviate the pain and distress of these children and their families.
All these problems are our concern, naturally they are the concern of the Ukraine first and foremost, but they are also our concern.
The Ukrainian government must respect the commitment to shut down the plant that is still operating, but the European Union has the duty to intervene with the breadth of measures necessary to remove the risk and take care of the casualties as far as possible.
And this is done despite the fact that 200 reputable scientists from Belarus, the Russian Federation and Ukraine have already identified an increase in cancer, leukaemia and organic brain damage.
For Belarus, the hardest-hit country, the equivalent of 31 annual budgets would be needed to establish some degree of control over the impact on man and nature.
Perhaps other solutions, other types of action, could have been envisaged, but we all know how difficult international negotiations are.
Clearly, there are a number of medical and social problems that have not yet been adequately addressed in the regions concerned, which do not possess the facilities that we have.
It could also carry out a longer-term action programme in the area of the celebrated culture of nuclear safety, which was so lacking at the time of the Chernobyl disaster, and which will continue to be lacking in the future, even if we hand over fully operational, safe nuclear power stations to the people of Russia and Ukraine.
In this area, Commissioner, perhaps you could submit to us a more specific proposal for discussion at a meeting in the near future, which I hope will be more constructive.
It is time to call for the opening of a new phase of nuclear safety, as regards both control of the dangers and treatment of the waste from nuclear power stations.
Commissioner, I would urge you to respond to the pressure from Parliament by bringing forward the economic proposals that it is calling for this afternoon, with a view to tackling the problem firmly.
There is therefore a discrepancy between the policy agreed with Lithuania on this plant, and the plant's management.
The Union has a clear task, and that is to help build up these alternatives, to provide support for the reorganization of energy systems and distribution, but it requires a totally different and firm set of agreements.
It is, in fact, one of the biggest problems associated with the enlargement, etc.
I personally regard that as a very important effort over the 10 years.
Also the last comments from Mr Sindal regarding the situation in Lithuania were instructive.
Madam President, on behalf of the Council I have listened with great interest to what has been said, and I must say that I have learned a great deal: I have learned that this is an immensely complex and complicated problem in medical, social, technical and finally, energy terms.
I do not think that is true and I do not think it is fair to say so, because the Commission has done everything possible: when it comes down to it, 4 billion dollars have been allocated in one way or another.
Let me say quite frankly that far more needs to be done in many respects, but I do not think it is possible to do everything for everyone in every case.
But we also need to talk about Belarus, which is suffering equally serious pollution and human and social damage.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Situation in the Middle East The next item is the statement by the Council on the situation in the Middle East.
The issue we now have to deal with is a very delicate, very complex and very difficult one.
The recent events in Lebanon are additional confirmation that the Middle East is still a volatile area, and it is no accident that the presidency, which I have the honour to represent here, has placed the Middle East and the Mediterranean in general amongst the priority areas in the interest of the Union.
The Union has done everything possible and has spared no effort to try to reach, or at least facilitate, a solution to the troubles in the Middle East.
As you know, many steps have been taken subsequently in the midst of great difficulty, difficulty that certainly did not result from lack of determination on the part of the presidency, the Council and the Commission.
I think the European Union, strengthened by this record, has been in a position to express its concern about what is happening in Lebanon today.
The Member States of the Union regard the peace process as important because of the concrete results already achieved, and everyone is determined to do everything possible to prevent those achievements being compromised.
All the countries involved are being asked to contribute, as far as possible, to a reduction in the level of tension and above all - I repeat - to abstain from the use of force.
The Union will also continue its efforts through direct contacts and visits at the political level to the countries of the area, to emphasize the commitments undertaken by the informal Council of Palermo of 10 March, that is, cooperation to combat terrorism but also the opportunity, the need and the duty to consider civilian and unarmed populations.
Ladies and gentlemen, the union - as I said at the start - reaffirms Israel's right to its own security and condemns the violence of Hizbollah which has caused a reaction by Israel.
But at the same time, the Union expresses its concern about the effects the Israeli reaction has had on the unarmed civilian population, and an emergency plan to assist the populations directly affected is being implemented.
In the last few days - let me repeat - the European Union has stepped up its action with the visit of the troika and through this diplomacy we hope to bring about or facilitate in any way we can the resumption of negotiations and ensure that the 1993 agreement between Israel and the Hizbollah constitutes a useful starting point.
I think this action is strengthened by what has been done over the last few years.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say I do not know what results the troika has achieved in the last few days in its contacts with Beirut, Amman, Damascus and Tel Aviv, or what conclusions it has been able to reach.
In this House we have paid fulsome tribute to our friends in this Israeli Labour Government who, by acting with courage and vision, began the process to lead the tormented Middle East out of conflict and towards a long-term peaceful solution.
On behalf of the Socialist Group today we extend our undiluted support for that peace process.
We offer our support as well to the Israeli Labour Government and those of their Arab neighbours who have met the challenge of peace and have become bigger men because of it.
While our intellect may tell us that this current action against Lebanon is not the right approach, our hearts, which have bled with the Israeli people for their dead and injured, have considerable sympathy with their predicament.
We deplore the hand of Iran in this and look to Syria to exercise leverage in Lebanon if it truly seeks peace as its leaders so recently assured a delegation from my group that it did.
The European Union has a growing responsibility to support those seeking peace on its borders.
Of course we want Israel to stop the bombing that is causing such human misery to the civilian population in Lebanon.
But we also demand solidarity and real political commitment to support Israeli civilians against the terror of the extremists.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Middle East is now extremely grave and there is a long list of victims on all sides.
In the face of this reality, sad as it is for the prospect of peace, I wish the European Union had done much more than it already has.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, given the situation that has developed today, the solution to the Middle East problem lies in the implementation of a system that includes, on the one hand, immediate measures to built trust, and on the other hand, long-term policies.
On the other hand, immediate cessation of bombardments by Israel and the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the security zone in South Lebanon.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a motion has been tabled which expresses the anxiety of all the political groups in this House.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, our fear is that the escalation of violence in South Lebanon and northern Israel will undermine the Middle East peace process initiated by Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat.
The first has already paid for his courageous commitment to peace with his life, and the position of the second is now being weakened by the new situation in the region.
The European Union and its Member States must do everything possible to prevent the logic of peace from being replaced by a logic of war, through a deadly sequence of events which no one is able to stop.
We must reaffirm unequivocally the right of the Israeli people to live in peace and security within their internationally recognized and guaranteed borders.
It is hard to accept without comment the statement by the Israeli Prime Minister that it is too early to negotiate.
The solution to the conflict will not be military, but diplomatic.
Similarly, we are entitled to call on our American partner, the United States Government - whose opinion, we know, counts for a great deal with the Israeli Government - to play a mediating role.
We welcome the ceasefire plan proposed by the United States Government, but the ceasefire must be implemented without delay.
In particular, the Israeli air force's bombing raids on civilian targets in Lebanon must end immediately, because as the French Prime Minister said yesterday, they are unacceptable.
Naturally, the same goes for Hizbollah's rocket attacks on northern Israel.
Madam President, Israel's current actions in South Lebanon do not constitute an attack, but a response to an attack.
Madam President, the Israeli bombing of Lebanon provokes our condemnation and concern.
Such a chain of events exposes the civilian population, which has such need of peace, to all the dangers of war.
We are calling for the immediate cessation of the Israeli bombing - which is endorsed by the Americans - and an immediate halt to all military action, as well as the granting of emergency humanitarian aid to the Lebanese refugees.
Everything possible must be done to save the peace process and build a lasting peace in the region.
The European Union and each of its Member States must act to bring an end to Israel's military actions and bombing in Lebanon.
It must bring its full weight to bear to help the resumption of the peace process and the building of a lasting peace which guarantees the security of all the peoples of the region.
The Israelis must also show clearly that they are prepared to withdraw from Lebanon completely as part of an agreed peaceful settlement of the conflict.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the events of the last few days in Lebanon fill us with dismay, since they are threatening the peace process which we have welcomed from the start.
Certainly, we can and must understand the reaction of the Israeli Government, which cannot stand back and watch while terrorist attacks increase and its citizens are killed.
We can also understand the difficulties of Prime Minister Peres, who is facing elections and is obliged to demonstrate his firmness.
Certainly, as you have just said, Mr President-in-Office, the Troika, represented by the political directors of the three foreign ministries, is paying a visit to the region, but in a very low-key way and without tangible results.
The United States' peace plan has finally been examined by the opposing governments.
France, for its part, has attempted a number of measures, but without consulting the other Member States beforehand - which is hardly in keeping with the European spirit.
Neither Israel nor the United States make this mistaken assumption.
Madam President, after the suicide attacks by the Hamas the rocket assaults on Northern Israel by the Shiite Hizbollah movement show clearly how fragile the peace process is in the Middle East.
The freedom that Syria and in its wake Lebanon are giving to the actions of the Hizbollah is a major obstacle to reaching a definitive peace settlement.
The Israeli government is justified in its military actions of the last few days to do everything possible to protect its citizens on the border with Lebanon against the cowardly rocket attacks.
Finally developments in Lebanon form an additional reason to exert diplomatic pressure on Iran.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, Lebanon is being battered and bruised in a war which the two rival powers in the region are waging on its territory.
Syria arms the Hizbollah militias in their war - which it firmly controls - against Israel.
The war legitimizes its police and military regime and its occupation of Lebanon.
An economically prosperous Lebanon would mean the return of Beirut as a strong financial centre, at the expense of Haifa and Tel Aviv.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should not like to miss this opportunity to thank the presidency for their kind and helpful comments.
Secondly, irrespective of party and national allegiance, we in the European Parliament have welcomed and supported the peace process between Israel and the PLO.
That is why this Parliament, which has spoken such clear words in the past, must turn to Israel today and tell it to stop the bombing and the expulsions in Lebanon right now!
Terrorism stops the peace process and I believe that some people have a lot to answer for at the present time, namely Hamas and Hizbollah.
We as a Community must act together and I am delighted to hear the President-inOffice say that the Troika is currently looking at the situation.
There is one government in the Middle East which is guilty of crimes within its own country as well as within the Middle East generally and that, of course, is Iran.
Mr President, this Parliament has expressed on numerous occasions its unequivocal support for the Middle East peace process initiated by the Oslo Agreements.
Similarly, the Israeli army's disproportionate attacks against Lebanon will not succeed in stopping Hizbollah's bombardment of Israeli civilians.
Israel must cease its military actions against Lebanon and comply with the relevant international resolutions, in particular UN Security Council Resolutions 425, 508 and 509, which call for its withdrawal from South Lebanon.
If Israel complies with those international resolutions, Hizbollah and its sponsors will be isolated and deprived of all justification for their actions.
The European Union must take action along these lines - collectively, and not in the form of isolated initiatives - if it does not wish to continue merely financing the strategies of powers outside the region, and if it wishes to play a part in restoring peace to the region, something which is vital to the success of projects such as the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement.
And no one can remain indifferent to the suffering of civilian populations, in Lebanon or elsewhere.
Nevertheless, the State of Israel, which has demonstrated its desire for peace, and which has already paid a very high price, cannot allow terrorist movements to strike at its very heart by launching rocket attacks on its towns and villages.
The terrorist movements responsible for these actions, these murders, have been clearly identified.
The European Parliament must take action along these lines, thereby assisting the peace process and its architects on the ground.
It must unequivocally demand the ending of all negotiations and all contact with Iran, until that country condemns terrorism.
Peace in the Middle East depends on this far more than on resolutions.
Israel's occupation of South Lebanon and the inability of the Lebanese Government to guarantee the region's security are fundamental obstacles to achieving peace.
There can be no successful solution without the intervention of mediating powers.
Strictly speaking, France and the United States do not have the same position on the Middle East.
After the war in Yugoslavia, after the conflict between Greece and Turkey, now the situation in the Middle East is once again demonstrating that the world's foremost commercial power counts for little on the world political scene.
You have already heard colleagues in my group, the European United Left, firmly condemn the Hizbollah movement's terrorist attacks against Israel.
Our group has always spoken out against the use of religious fundamentalism for political ends and even worse, as in this case, for terrorist ends.
But today we equally firmly condemn the grave decision of Shimon Peres' Israeli government to plunge the whole region into violence, with indiscriminate bombing of Lebanon's civilian population, and hundreds of thousands of refugees and evacuees in Beirut.
Furthermore, we consider that the attack against the whole of Lebanon is seriously endangering the Middle East peace process.
We therefore call for the immediate cessation of hostilities and the resumption of negotiations between Lebanon, Syria and Israel, with a view to lasting peace between these countries.
My group believes, and this has already been said, that United Nations Security Council Resolution 425 must be implemented and respected, and I would remind you that the resolution provides for the withdrawal of the Israeli occupation forces and respect for the territorial integrity of Lebanon.
It is useless to disguise the truth: unless Israel decides to withdraw from the Golan Heights and from southern Lebanon in parallel with a decision by Syria and Lebanon to expel the terrorist forces that threaten the existence of Israel, there will never be peace.
I believe that to a large extent this can be attributed to an inadequate presence of the Council of Ministers in the Middle East crisis, perhaps related to the internal problems of the country exercising the presidency, while in fact Italy, owing to its position, its geographical position, and its historical ties, could have played a very important role.
With this opportunity, however, Mr President, I want to express my concern about the recent defence cooperation agreement between Israel and Turkey, which has resulted in a link between two great crises, the Middle East crisis and the Greece-Turkey crisis, and which could lead to more general and more widespread problems in the area.
But our man in Damascus is still quietly waiting to see how the balance of power develops, with only one thought in mind, that of clinching a huge economic deal which can hold the dictatorship in place in Damascus.
The peace process in the Middle East, Mr President, and the opportunity for Lebanon to enjoy its own sovereignty in freedom partly depends on ending the terrorism which is supported by Syria and Iran.
Our aim as Europeans is not only to secure peace in Europe but to secure stability and peace all around us, not only for Christian reasons but because it is better for all concerned that peace should prevail in this and other regions of the world.
The Commission is also of the opinion that Resolutions 425 and 508 of the Security Council must be respected.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council has listened to a debate of high moral tone, if I may say so, and also of great political support for action the European Union, the Council, the Commission and all the Member States may take at an objectively difficult time.
There is a necessary and objective process of joint planning which can be an advantage but may also, as in this case, be a disadvantage of the European Union.
The crisis broke last week, and as Commissioner Van den Broek put it, very well I think, it involves an evaluation of degree, which is difficult and needs to weighed with great wisdom because no-one can deny - and this has been the attitude of all the Member States of the European Union, at Palermo and then in a wider spectrum of nations at Sharm-el-Sheikh - that terrorism must be condemned and countries supporting terrorism or even suspected of it must be given some kind of warning.
In fact the troika went to Teheran on 2 April, that is, after Sharm-el-Sheikh and before the current crisis.
Various comments have been made about Syria and its attitude, about Lebanon which is suffering from the violence of others, but also about Israel's patience and determination to achieve peace as demonstrated over all these months, about the terrorist attacks inside the country, and about the sacrifice of Yitzhak Rabin, and I would say in homage to him that it was an almost classical sacrifice to the peace process.
I think the initiatives of individual countries, appreciable and noble and important though they may be, and that is how they are described in a communication to the President of 15 April, but the efforts of each country to contribute to the extent of its influence, weight and tradition certainly need to be coordinated with the Community's general measures.
In this case France certainly took a very noble initiative and the presidency was in fact informed and it was implemented in a way that made it part of a collective plan, a common design.
The objective is to involve everyone in a peace process, every zone in the area, every country and every effort they can make towards it.
In addition to this, other ideas have been outlined and the American Under-Secretary is examining them today in Rome.
At the moment the troika delegation is in Cairo, tomorrow it will be in Damascus, and the day after tomorrow in Tel Aviv.
Mr Alavanos is right that it is in fact of special interest to Italy, for obvious reasons it seems to me, but unfortunately Italy is not acting alone and there are many things to be considered.
The point is very simple: we have to do everything possible, but not pass judgement, which is very difficult to do at the moment, faced with the suffering of the Israeli people and, of course, of the people of Lebanon.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 12 noon tomorrow.
I hope that the interpreters will be agreeable to this because it always depends on their cooperation.
Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your answer to my question, which was in fact tabled before the Council adopted its decision.
I venture to suggest that a decision like this, condemning racism and xenophobia, would be unanimous.
There is a need to promote moral action, because if the European Parliament and the European Union are not in a position to combat racism and xenophobia, they will be failing in one of their duties.
Question No 3 by Alexandros Alavanos (H-0213/96) Subject: Position of the Council regarding the crisis between Greece and Turkey In a resolution of 15 February 1996 the European Parliament deplored 'the failure of the European Union and its Member States in this crisis to take effective action within the framework of the common foreign and security policy' .
Mr Alavanos' question is also quite difficult and delicate at this time.
I certainly do not think the presidency can be reproached for not devoting every effort to ensuring that these disputes could somehow be resolved through talks, in the interests of both countries, in the interests of the region - and by region I mean something very specific - and hence in the interests of stability in Europe.
The difficulty actually lies in trying to identify the possibility of genuine terms for a solution between the two parties involved.
In the first place I want to point out that the Council is not in the habit of evaluating or commenting on decisions, acts or statements made outside its own meetings by persons or organizations external to the Council.
This proposal will be discussed at the next meeting of the Fisheries Council on 22 April 1996, as I have already stated in replying to other questions three weeks ago.
I am grateful to the President-in-Office for his explanation, but I am obliged to say that the Council has been examining the Commission proposal and Parliament's report for almost two years now.
In principle, there was a deadline of 8 April, by which date the US Government was required to ask the Italian Government to submit an action plan for controlling the use of driftnets in the Mediterranean.
Given that the Italian Government has 30 days in which to reply, therefore, is the Italian Government prepared to submit such an action plan?
The second comment is that, in our opinion, our standards are in line with those of the United Nations and therefore I must infer that the attitude of the United States is wrong.
If it decides to take no action, that will mean that it accepts the accusations.
If it decides to take action, because it believes that the United States has violated world trade rules, then it will have to take the matter to the World Trade Organization.
Secondly, the actions of a United States court cannot have extra-territorial effect, they cannot have effect outside the United States.
In the third place it seems to us that these provisions, as they have been described, are incompatible with the decisions of the Uruguay Round on free trade.
I do not think it will be difficult for Mr Ebner to understand my thinking on the subject of what has been done by the Council and by Italy on the principle of respect for minority nationalities.
At this point it should be remembered how much the European Union, the individual Member States and Italy have been doing progressively over the last few years to advance the recognition of documents relating to minorities, like the Charters of Copenhagen and Moscow, in the context of the ex-ECSC, now the ECSO.
Count Ferraris, I am sincerely grateful both for what you have said and above all for what has been done in the past on this issue.
That is a great pity, and I believe that the demand made by the European Parliament in the Maij-Weggen/Dury report underlines this.
Personally I hope that Parliament will seek to bring up this point when participating in the Intergovernmental Conference, because it is an intrinsic part of the heritage of rights of European citizens.
If we added all of the national minorities or ethnic groups in the European Union together, particularly after enlargement, they would constitute the second-largest Member State.
When these states accede to the Union, however, this obligation will cease to apply.
I have difficulty answering you, Mr Posselt, because I have already mentioned the importance of this issue in relation to the enlargement myself.
Let me repeat that we are at the start of an Intergovernmental Conference.
Question No 6 by Christine Oddy (H-0247/96) Subject: Sri Lanka What steps does the Council intend to take to ensure that urgently required medical aid is sent to Northern Sri Lanka?
I visited Sri Lanka from 1-5 April and met Joe Green, the Commission representative out there, who was very helpful.
There are three problems which I have now identified and I would like the Council's views on them.
I can see that you probably know better than anyone that Sri Lanka recently reintroduced a state of emergency.
The European Union can do no more than confirm the 1994 declaration, the condemnation of all who violate human rights, its position in defence of human rights, and the commitment deriving from Parliament's resolution of 27 March of this year, calling for the definition of certain priorities.
It is my opinion, finally, that the Union, the presidency and the Council are unfortunately powerless in the face of this tragic situation.
The position defended by the United Kingdom is more lax and less demanding of respect for human rights, and also has no real foundation - and I repeat this because the information is conflicting.
I am afraid your information was not correct because the problem that existed with the United Kingdom has been resolved.
The problem of the United Kingdom - a problem about how to decide on possible suspension in relation to possible violation of human rights - was resolved with an appropriate formula which was also considered acceptable by the United Kingdom itself.
I believe this problem about methods was discussed in the plenary session of this Parliament a few days ago.
So I think this question probably predates the understanding adopted and then approved in Turin on 29 March.
Let me just remind you briefly that Parliament is invited, through both the presidency and Parliament's own representatives, to join in the process of decision-making at the Intergovernmental Conference.
I think the solution adopted takes account of two aspects.
On the one hand, that it is purely and simply an Intergovernmental Conference and that therefore only governments can be involved in the actual negotiations; on the other, that the governments and in particular the presidency and the majority of Member States want Parliament to be associated with it in an intense, penetrating and profound way because it is felt that the advice and support of Parliament is needed to achieve greater transparency and a people's Europe.
It is a question of public access for citizens and journalists to the documents on which discussions and decisions at the IGC are based.
If I have understood your request correctly it is not so much about the association of Parliament as actual public access to the documents of the Intergovernmental Conference, the way in which the decisions are taken and the content of those decisions.
The presidency will do everything in its power to ensure that there is adequate information on the progress of the work and naturally it will try to provide all possible information to the public and to the national parliaments, via the conference of organizations specializing in the affairs of the Community, COSAC.
The public must naturally be informed by implementing the principle of transparency which is to the advantage of all, but a wholly public conference would not facilitate the achievement of that consensus, that agreement, taking account of every nuance and all the interests and concerns of the Member States, which has to be reached.
But I want to say, and this is in my official capacity, that the clear intention of the presidency, the Council and, I believe, the Intergovernmental Conference itself is to be as transparent as possible in making its decisions widely available to the public.
According to a statement by the government of the United Kingdom, under the Act of Accession of the United Kingdom to the Community, the validity of which is recognized, inter alia , by a judgement of the Court, citizens of British Dependent Territories, with the exception of Gibraltar, are not considered citizens of the United Kingdom.
Therefore citizens from Hong Kong who hold British passports are included amongst citizens of third countries who currently do not have the right to stay and move freely in the territories of the Member States, unlike citizens of the Union.
Furthermore, on the adoption of Regulation 2317/95, which determined which third countries' citizens must hold a visa to cross the external frontiers of the Member States, the Council issued a public statement that the treatment of Chinese citizens who have the right of residence in Hong Kong and Macao will be established later.
Finally, still under the same regulation, it is up to Member States to decide whether citizens of third countries which do not appear on the common list attached to that regulation are subject to the obligation to hold a visa.
In addition, under the same regulation, within five years the Commission must to proceed to closure with a report on that harmonization and, if necessary, it will present proposals on further measures necessary to achieve this objective.
Five years is rather a long time to wait, particularly in the case of the citizens of Hong Kong who will be given away to China in not much more than a year.
I feel that the Council could make an exception here and talk about citizenship rather earlier.
It also seems strange that Hong Kong citizens will be able to travel around 11 of the Member States but not be able to enter the four countries I mentioned in my question.
I am sure they could do something and they would appreciate the position of these people who are rather different from third country nationals.
I do not know the problem in detail but it seems to me that British Overseas National status, which was set up to replace that of British Dependent Territories Citizen of Hong Kong with a view to the transfer of Hong Kong to the sovereignty of the People's Republic of China, means that they cannot even reside in the United Kingdom.
So I think it is a little difficult to ask for them to be allowed to move around the Union when they cannot even go to the United Kingdom, if my information is correct; forgive me if it is wrong.
However that may be, as from 1 July 1997 - at least according to the information I have available - passports will be issued as follows: Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passports to people who have not asked for British Overseas National status, and people currently holding a Hong Kong Certificate of Identity.
The methods for issuing this new Hong Kong Special Administrative Region document have not yet been established, but it should be a different passport from that issued by the Chinese government.
I repeat, if citizens of Hong Kong with this document are not even allowed to reside in the United Kingdom, then the question of visas for Germany, France, Spain and Portugal arises in a slightly different way.
It is completely clear and the recollection of everybody from my group and, I understand, others who were there in the Conference was that there would be no speaking list and we would apply the rules of the Delors procedure whereby the President in the chair would call Members on a show of hands.
It is perfectly acceptable for you to make that decision now, given the time of day that it is, given the fact that my group has prepared for this discussion tonight without a speaking list.
You are now saying that we should stay here and wait until this first debate is finished before that decision is made.
Mr President, our group is under the same understanding as Mrs Green.
I would ask, however, that questions should not extend beyond two minutes, to ensure that the maximum possible number of Members are given the chance of putting a question.
One minute would be even better.
The agenda cannot be amended, amongst other things because Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure says clearly that once adopted the agenda may not be amended.
The Rules of Procedure themselves do not provide for a list, but there has always been fair play on the part of the Members in presenting it.
The Council of Baltic Sea States can play an important role here and the European Union's involvement is of considerable importance too.
Four of the countries in the Council of Baltic Sea States are Members of the European Union.
The Baltic region is the EU's nordic dimension.
The Visby summit on 3 and 4 May, to be attended by the heads of government of the countries in the Council of Baltic Sea States and the Presidents of both the Council of Ministers and the Commission, can set the agenda and give weight to cooperation in the future.
The Kaliningrad region is surrounded by countries which have applied for membership of the Union.
The situation as regards security policy is unstable because the political future of Russia is so uncertain.
The foundations for peaceful development must be laid through dialogue and constructive cooperation at all levels.
Shortly before Visby a meeting will be held in Stockholm with prominent business leaders from all the countries in the Baltic region; at the meeting a special declaration is to be adopted.
Prospective members are not primarily interested in subsidies but in economic freedom and political cooperation.
Mr President, I have asked the Commission how we can help at the Visby summit to prepare for the enlargement of the European Union and bring about cooperation with our neighbours to the East and with Russia which is characterised by trust.
The EU has every reason to support regional cooperation around the Baltic Sea economically and politically.
The European Parliament has shown great interest in Baltic cooperation and issues concerning the Baltic have been debated here on many occasions.
Helcom has an operational programme currently in force and this could certainly be used as a basis for a more ambitious plan than in the past.
Priority in energy policy should be given to natural gas networks; the most dangerous nuclear power stations should be closed immediately and it must above all be remembered that there are measurable nuclear problems in the Kola peninsula.
The Commission ought to say how it sees the possible enlargement of NATO and the Western European Union affecting the stability of the Baltic Sea area.
Mr President, the initiative adopted by the Commission to reinforce the stability and economic development of the Baltic Sea area is welcome.
The Commission proposal contains concrete projects in the energy field.
By way of example, the Commission mentions the Baltic Electricity Ring which was adopted at Parliament's suggestion as one of the list of energy networks in the Community interest.
The development of the northern European gas network received the support of the European Parliament and Council Conciliation Committee.
Interinstitutional declarations stress that the development of gas networks in northern Europe creates possibilities for significant growth in gas markets and for the improvement of energy security and environmental quality throughout the Union.
In conciliation on energy networks Parliament's proposal for a northern gas network - the Nordic Gas Grid project - was unfortunately omitted from the project list.
In Amendment No 6 I propose that the Nordic Gas Grid project be included as soon as possible on the list of Europe-wide projects in the common interest.
The purpose of this project is to link the gas pipelines in the EU's northern Member States Finland, Sweden and Denmark so that Russia's and Norway's gas resources can be used to increase the security of gas supplies both in the Baltic Sea region and in the whole of northern Europe.
There is an urgent need for the Union to produce an overall action plan coordinating its activities in the Baltic, beyond the bilateral relations which it has recently established with the various countries, and on top of the financial aid provided through PHARE, TACIS, INTERREG, Synergy, the ERDF and other programmes.
New Member States, more applicant countries, everything already points in the same direction, as other colleagues have stressed.
The differences are not really that great as yet.
The Council and the Commission must follow up the Visby meeting and ensure that hope, strength and faith in the future is given to the peoples around the Baltic Sea.
These peaceful neighbourly relations have formed the basis for the international cooperation which has developed in the Baltic region, particularly as a result of the Helsinki conventions and the HELCOM cooperation on the Baltic's marine environment.
In anticipation of the forthcoming Summit meeting of the Council of the Baltic States, to be held in Visby and 3 and 4 May, the Council has been asked about the Union policy with regard to the Baltic region.
The Council is to be represented at the Visby meeting by the President of the European Council, that is by Mr Dini, who is an Italian and who will be taking part in this Summit precisely in order to emphasize the importance which the Council and the Union attach to the Baltic Union.
Point 8 of the declaration issued on that occasion expressed the view that it was desirable and important that there should be a further rapprochement between the Baltic States and the European Union - that is, those Baltic States which are not yet members of the European Union.
In point 16 a favourable view was expressed of the Union's approach to the Baltic area and finally point 28 stressed the objective of recognizing the Baltic region as a political force and a dynamic element in a democratic Europe.
I should like to point out that the Union supports regional cooperation initiatives in Europe.
It supports, in addition to the Council of the Baltic States, the initiative for Central Europe and economic cooperation in the Black Sea for which a meeting is to be held at the end of next week, if I remember correctly, on 27 April, to which the President of the Union amongst others has been invited, for the very purpose of furthering the economic development of the regions concerned and political stability and security in Europe in general.
The Union, then, is particularly interested as regards the Baltic States, bearing in mind that some of its Member States are also members of the Council of Baltic States - Denmark, Germany, Finland and Sweden - whilst others are members of the European Economic Area - Norway and Iceland - and others, finally, are associated States, namely Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
To complete the picture and to emphasize the Union's particular interest in the Baltic countries, I would remind you that the Madrid Council, in December 1995, took note of the Commission report on the situation and the prospects for cooperation in the Baltic region, a report which formed part of and was a follow-up to the conclusions on the development of cooperation, political dialogue and economic cooperation in the Baltic region.
As far as we understand, this Commission proposal will be ready this month, April.
In any case, Commissioner Van den Broek will be able to tell you much more.
Finally I should like also to mention the other initiatives which the Union has taken as regards the region of the Baltic countries.
For example participation in the seminar at Karlskrona in Sweden last March on cross-border cooperation, in which the European Union was represented, demonstrating the concern and need to find adequate Community funds in connection with the TACIS and PHARE programmes.
Then the Union took part in the specialist conference at Copenhagen of the Nordic Council and in the Nordic Ministerial Council devoted to European subjects, with representatives from national parliaments, governments and of course from the European Union.
Finally the political dialogue between the European Union and the European Economic Area - Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein - involves countries which are more or less in the Baltic area.
To round off this matter, I should like to say that I myself, as representing the presidency, have travelled to the three Baltic republics, to Riga, to Tallinn and to Vilnius, in the past few days to discuss and consider together with the foreign ministers, the Presidents of the Republic and other bodies and organizations in those countries, the results of the Intergovernmental Conference in Turin and above all to show the European Union's specific interest.
We should like to mention the usefulness of engaging in a continuing dialogue with those countries and, if I may add a personal comment, they particularly appreciated that very idea of dialogue: it gives them confidence to know that the presidency is concerned about them, is following their affairs, intends to keep them informed by holding a dialogue not just a one-sided affair, but allowing them to make proposals and suggestions which may be useful for the work of the Union as a whole.
The interest expressed by the Members present here who are particularly close to the Baltic region, in particular those of Sweden and Denmark, show that the region is not forgotten by the Union.
That interest has been taken over by the Union as a whole and by the presidency in particular in so far as the Baltic region is an essential part of Europe, that is, of a Community stretching from the Mediterranean to the far north, and which finds the region of the Baltic a matter of particular interest in the runup to enlargement, which we hope will not be too long delayed, and may include all the countries of the Baltic region, that is, the three Baltic Republics and Poland, in our European Union.
Mr President, the Council of the Baltic Sea States, which the Commission regards as a unique forum, comprises four EU Member States, four associated countries, the Russian Federation, Norway and Iceland, as has already been mentioned this evening, and what is fairly unique in the view of the Commission is that the Commission is a full member of this Council in its own right.
This document is based on an earlier Commission communication dated October 1994 called 'Guidelines for the Union's approach to the Baltic region' and on an earlier communication, ' Situation and prospects for cooperation in the Baltic' , which the Commission presented in December 1995 at the European Summit in Madrid.
The Baltic region is a region with many opportunities and great potential as regards natural resources, production and trade, with a total population of around 60 million.
The Baltic region is also a region of considerable importance as regards security policy; it could play an important role in establishing good relations and closer cooperation between the European Union, the former Soviet states and Russia.
Nevertheless, common initiatives and efforts are required from both the Baltic States themselves and from the European Union if democratic and economic development in the region is to be fostered.
The countries which are not yet members of the EU should even now be involved in the work taking place in the social dimension, in the development of a common employment strategy and in the EU's environmental policy work.
I therefore urge the Commission to submit practical proposals at the summit on these areas and thereby help make the outcome of the meeting as substantive as possible.
There is no conflict between these two areas of regional cooperation in Europe.
Both are equally important for the achievement of harmonious and peaceful development in Europe.
In the field of economic cooperation the measures the Commission is prepared to support through the Phare programme include a free trade area comprising Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and the foundation of a customs union by 1998.
By means of the same programme the Commission undertakes to promote the achievement of free trade in the framework of the Central European Free Trade Agreement between the Baltic states and Poland.
The Commission quite rightly draws attention to the important role of small and medium-sized undertakings in promoting trade cooperation.
The Commission also considers it important to link the Union's electricity and gas networks to the corresponding networks in the associated countries, such as the Baltic electricity network.
It is to be hoped that the Visby summit will extend the gas network list in this sense.
First of all the Council and Commission must remember that the Barents sea area is a vital part of the Baltic region.
To ensure the favourable development of the Baltic region it is necessary to create pan-European cooperation in which Russia too has an equal part.
In principle this could be done either by accepting Russia too as an EU Member State or by turning the Council of Europe into a strong pan-European cooperation umbrella.
I hope that we can promote a realistic discussion about the future of Europe as a whole on the basis of these alternatives.
The Union is already involved in the work of the Barents EuroArctic Council.
Mr President, the Visby Summit is a welcome initiative of vital concern to the future development of the Baltic Sea region, discussing as it will security, crime, the environment and EU enlargement.
The summit is also important because it brings together members of the Council of Baltic Sea States and two of the three leading institutions of the EU: the Council and the Commission.
Four members of the Council of Baltic Sea States are EU Members already, while four are applying for membership: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland.
The EU has a partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia.
The EU is committed to countering pollution in the Baltic Sea and ensuring the safety of nuclear plants and installations.
Through TACIS, PHARE and INTERREG the EU is assisting the economic and political reform process in the former Soviet bloc.
The EU and the applicant states have much to prepare before enlargement can take place.
Obvious examples are the reform of the CAP and structural funds and reform of the EU's decision-making structures.
I hope that the summit at Visby will take place in a spirit of positive, but realistic cooperation.
It is important that all the regions in the Baltic area should take part in the Visby Summit and that the European Union should have a strong presence there.
The main objective of the Visby conference will naturally enough be strengthening democratic and economic development in the area.
Attention has quite rightly been drawn in this house to the necessity of creating a programme for the European Union aimed at balanced and sustainable development in the Baltic region, which will strengthen joint economic and political activity in the area.
In the Baltic region there is a need for cooperation based on respect for the independence of all the countries in the areas.
Mr President, the speeches of honourable Members in the last round have raised one or two points on which I should like to make a few remarks.
Mrs Theorin and Mrs Iivari in particular spoke of security and also of security organizations with regard to the Baltic.
I should like to point out that the four Baltic countries are associate partners of Western European Union and take part regularly as observers in various sittings of the WEU Council.
It was during the Italian presidency of the WEU two or three years ago if I am not mistaken that that initiative was taken and their participation has been standard, active and effective.
Strangely enough, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the WEU, Sir Dudley Smith, is in Rome today and will in fact be holding discussions.
Finally I should like to mention that various Baltic countries, apart of course from Germany and Denmark, - that is, Sweden, Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - will be taking part in the Ministerial Council of the WEU in Birmingham in May.
Here I should like to mention, in case it may be of interest, both the Council of Europe Convention on protection of minorities and the Central European initiative INCE in this same connection.
I mention all this in order to stress how, apart from the European Union as such, other European organizations have a particular interest as regards the Baltic countries, an interest which finds expression either in the field of security, the law of the sea or minorities, that is, in all the spheres touched on, I think, by honourable Members in their speeches.
The vote will be taken at noon tomorrow.
Commission statement on BSE The next item is the statement by the Commission on BSE, including the financial aspects.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 March, in other words about three weeks ago, I took the opportunity of addressing Parliament on the subject of the background to the emergency decision which was adopted by the Commission on that day.
Since then, some three weeks have passed, and today I should like to bring the House up to date on a number of important events which have taken place, and make some comments for the future.
The Commission has never said that British beef is unsafe.
This was based on Article 43 of the EC Treaty, which the Court of Justice has interpreted as extending to health issues, where these are connected with agriculture.
Since the suspicion that BSE might be transmitted to humans became known, the Veterinary Standing Committee of the European Union has examined all the available data relating to the new cases of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease and the measures currently in force for the control of BSE in the United Kingdom.
Fourthly, the United Kingdom is to submit to the Commission by 30 April a specific proposal for the selective slaughtering of animals or herds which have probably come into contact with infected flesh or bone meal and which, from this point of view, represent groups which are at special risk.
Fifthly, the veterinary services in the United Kingdom will step up their inspections to ensure that controls on the identification and destruction of cattle are in fact being scrupulously carried out.
Within the next few weeks, the Commission will send an inspection team to the United Kingdom, including experts from the other Member States.
On 9 April, the Veterinary Standing Committee again reviewed the whole body of scientific knowledge on rendering the infective agent inactive in the course of tallow and gelatine production.
On the basis of the data currently available, the committee identified two processes, one used in the production of gelatine and similar products, and the other in the manufacture of tallow, whereby products could be manufactured for use in foodstuffs, medicines and cosmetics without any danger to health.
On 2 and 3 April, prior to these discussions, the World Health Organization held a hearing of experts on public health issues connected with communicable spongiform encephalopathies in humans and animals.
I can also inform the House that on 15 April, the Standing Committee on Foodstuffs, chaired by my colleague Mr Bangemann, dealt with the issue of the use of gelatine and similar products.
Nor is stepping up exports a way to solve this problem in itself, because if European consumers have no confidence in our beef, we can hardly expect to find such confidence among buyers in third world countries.
A first action of this kind is the measure co-financed by the EU to buy in British cattle aged over 30 months, ensuring that they do not subsequently find their way back into the food chain for human or animal consumption.
Apart from these measures, which are intended to help restore consumer confidence, the Commission is also supporting farmers in the other Member States.
Further to the special Council meeting in Luxembourg, it was decided by the Management Committee to bring forward the opening of intervention and at the same time to increase carcass weights.
Last week, the Commission put before the Management Committee a proposal for a procedure without weight limits and covering additional quality grades.
Apart from further scientific discussion and the forthcoming inspection arranged by the Commission in the United Kingdom, the Member States called on the United Kingdom at the last Council meeting to put forward a programme of selective slaughter designed to bring about a swift and substantial fall in the number of BSE cases in the United Kingdom.
In accordance with the conclusions of the special Council meeting on BSE, the Commission will keep the Council and the European Parliament regularly informed on the question of BSE.
I cannot give a comprehensive answer today to the question of what financial resources would be needed for a so-called BSE crisis package, since there are still many unknown factors in our calculations.
We can, however, make estimates for the following measures.
At a price of ECU 392 per head, the Community budget will have to face expenditure in the region of ECU 160 million in 1996 and ECU 320 m in 1997.
These figures are based on a Community contribution of 70 %.
In this context, perhaps I could say a few words on the revision of the financial perspective.
This advisory group will keep us up to date on the state of research and on future research requirements.
Is it known that the DG VI services are thinking about the preliminary draft budget for 1997 with spending cuts on the promotion of agricultural products on the European internal market and international markets, and if not do you think that in the light of this situation that estimate must be revised?
Mr President, I am glad to be able to answer that.
It is quite true that the Commission intends to help stimulate the beef market.
Thank you, Commissioner, for being here tonight because I know you have had a very hard day and you have met many groups in Parliament.
I am thinking particularly of a country in the south of Europe which has had over 30 cases which are completely unconnected to the British problem.
Firstly, as regards calves, it is true that in the Netherlands at the present time, calves are being slaughtered which originated in the United Kingdom.
At any rate, there is no evidence that the disease has spread into 30 countries.
Mr President, I thank you for calling the Member who represents both Aberdeen and Angus!
The crucial point will always be the adequacy of controls.
That is why the British Government has announced that proposals are also to be submitted in this respect.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, in reply to your comments about market measures, I said that intervention in itself could never solve the problem.
This means that entirely new designs for testing procedures must be developed - assuming, that is, that such a thing is possible at all.
If I may briefly recapitulate what I said earlier in my statement, we have already announced, for the 50 000 tonnes, an increase in carcass weights from 340 to 380 kilograms, and for the remaining quantity the weight limit has been removed entirely - in other words, there is at present no carcass weight limit here at all.
Consequently, the deciding factor is this: can one or can one not eradicate these doubtful tissues or parts in every case?
Do you not agree, Commissioner, that in the long run, it would be wiser to abandon intervention in the case of British beef?
I should like to know if you intend to bring proceedings before the Court of Justice against the companies which manufactured these products, so that those responsible have to bear the costs, rather than consumers.
Secondly, I should also like to know if you intend to provide any specific compensation for producers from other Community countries, and for all those downstream sectors which have suffered as a result of a drop in consumption.
Finally, it is expected - as I said at the beginning - that we shall adopt a variety of market measures to stimulate the purchase and consumption of beef once again.
I can only say that the British Government and the British Minister for Agriculture have announced that they are now in a position to put a proposal on the table, as regards the additional slaughter programme, by the end of this month at the latest.
I think that we are on the verge of the biggest revolution in recent decades in terms of changes in what we eat, that consumers have lost all confidence in their countries and producers and that we are not going to solve the problem by killing animals or banning particular foods.
But, for me, the most important thing, Commissioner, in this pact of confidence is winning over consumers and consumer associations.
I challenge the Commissioner to inform us whether, in this great food revolution which is upon us, he is willing to study this pact seriously, together with the active participation of consumers themselves.
Mr President, the restoration of consumer confidence in beef is central to this particular issue.
Up to 90 % of our beef is exported.
But we are thinking in the first place of making the BSE question a central focus for research, and will give BSE a correspondingly high priority in the allocation of resources to research projects.
The British experts have reported to various committees, including in particular the Standing Veterinary Committee.
I am closing the discussion on this question here, because forty minutes have gone by rather than thirty.
I am very sorry, but I think that on such an important and sensitive subject we shall have other occasions for everybody to speak.
I should like to say, in closing the discussion, that all the Groups present in Parliament have raised questions: naturally the biggest Groups have raised the most questions, but almost all countries have been able to express their views.
Mr President, I would like to thank you for your own chairmanship of this evening's sitting, but also to say how lamentable it is that a subject of this importance should have been taken so late at night when neither the press nor the public will ever hear what was said.
Mr President, on a point of order: I think that this type of debate must be urgently reviewed because we, the Members of the European Parliament, have been treated today like schoolchildren.
The directive is based on mutual recognition of the products containing biocides, and it may be a problem when not all the Member States have competent authorities within the meaning of the directive.
The Environment Committee has therefore opposed automatic market access after 60 days.
The industry has asked for a longer period for data protection, while the unions in the textile industry, on the other hand, feel that an authorization procedure lasting 10 years is very long.
And it is worth noting that the period for data protection in this proposal for a directive is five years longer than that applying to the pesticide directive.
The authorization system seems to me to be very flexible and not particularly bureaucratic.
The Environment Committee has been given two different explanations by the Commission as to why there are two Annexes, Nos 3 and 4, on which to base trials.
An important aspect is the alternative assessment of biocides.
An argument against alternative assessment is that it will be to the detriment of small and medium-sized businesses.
It should be remembered that small and medium-sized businesses more often produce products containing biocides rather than the active substances.
Consumers will continue to be able to buy products with which to combat a specific organism, as an active substance is only replaced if a new substance can be used for the same purpose.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal for a directive on biocidal products.
The committee discussed the draft report intensively, and in November 1995 adopted the opinion by an overwhelming majority.
The total value of this market is estimated at between ECU 1.5 and 2.5 billion.
Somewhat in contrast to the plant protectives sector, this is spread across some 400 active substances and 7000 biocidal products.
On the other hand, the development costs - and those of licensing and providing data - may in some cases, such as active substances, go well beyond the ECU 1 million mark.
Since market volumes are so limited, it needs to be considered how the necessary protection for mankind and the environment can be ensured with minimum financial outlay.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has therefore drawn the following conclusions.
The rapporteur mentioned one critical question, that of comparative assessment.
Mr President, even though it is late and many of us are tired I am glad that we are finally taking a decision and in any event conducting a debate on the proposal for a directive on biocidal products.
It is also a report which gives us a tool with which to protect both people's health and our environment.
But perhaps the most important thing is that the report proposes a flexible system which will provide the incentive for the development of more environmentally friendly products and therefore also for steps towards a sustainable society.
Our experience in Sweden, however, where we have had this system for almost ten years, suggests the opposite.
We also know that methods involving comparative assessments have resulted in a broader range of products being available and in more companies coming onto the market.
I also believe that it is important to point out that in our country comparative assessments are conducted in respect of about 10-20 % of the products on the market.
They are conducted whenever two active substances are comparable and effective in the same field and costs are the same, but one product is in fact much better for the environment than the other.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive concerning the authorization and placing on the market of biocidal products is a balanced one - at least that is my personal opinion - and aims to ensure the quality, safety and effectiveness of this widely used group of products.
In Parliament's debates on that directive, we had the opportunity to put forward many amendments, ideas and objectives, which ensured that the regulatory framework for agricultural pesticides is very satisfactory, and currently one of the best in the world.
A great deal of confusion was created in the debates in committee - as it will be, I imagine, in those in plenary - because an excessive number of amendments were tabled which in my view contribute absolutely nothing, and fail to take account of the ultimate purpose of this directive, which is, as I said before, to ensure the quality, safety and effectiveness of all biocidal products that come onto the market.
Mr President, now for something completely different!
I shall conclude by thanking the rapporteur for the considerable work she has put into this proposal, and recommend its adoption.
It is not an elegant solution but I cannot see any other way.
Consequently clear legislation is needed to protect both the consumer and the environment.
In her report on biocides, Mrs Kirsten Jensen has addressed the central questions relating to the environment and the consumer.
The removal of border controls also means that there must be a reasonable level of certainty that a product approved in one country can be placed on the market in all other Member States.
However, I am not sure that 60 days will be enough in all cases.
These rules are particularly important for the environment and consumer protection, since many people come into contact with products containing biocidal substances.
Important as this Community protective legislation is, it can only work if the implementing provisions are adopted at the same time, if both the directive and the implementing provisions are clear and unambiguous, and if evaluation is carried out on the basis of objective criteria, which in my view - as has already been mentioned, albeit the other way round - is not the case with the so-called comparative assessment provided for in Article 9(5).
With these points in mind, our group has tabled a number of amendments.
As with the directive on plant protection products, the Commission has dealt with the active substances themselves and the register of them on the one hand, and the question of how biocidal products are to be authorized at national level on the other.
My amendments are focused on the definition and in particular the licensing and placing on the market of products containing biocidal substances.
It means that in future, products derived from processes which have already been authorized will have a simpler licensing route to follow.
So I am glad, Commissioner, that we have been able to firm up your proposal a little, and it is now well placed to go on for discussion in the Council and its second reading.
Mr President, this proposal for a directive on a common EU-approved list and approval procedure concerning biocidal products, i.e products used for the control of organisms that are harmful to human or animal health, has come up for debate in Parliament at what I believe is a most appropriate time, for alarming medical research has recently been coming from various parts of Europe on the number of growth-inhibiting agents and their residues which are harmful to human hormone activity and consequently tend among other things to weaken human fertility.
Initially 62 and then a further 34 supplementary amendments.
Amendments Nos 1, 4, 7 and 8 are unacceptable.
Amendments Nos 9, 11, 17, 21, 29 and 31 are acceptable.
Amendments Nos 12, 13, 15, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 32, 33, 34, 35, 38 and 40-43, together with supplementary Amendments Nos 63, 65-69, 71, 74, 75, 77, 82, 84-91 and 94 are unacceptable.
Amendment No 61 and supplementary Amendment No 64 and 96 are partly acceptable in principle, while Amendments Nos 55, 58, 60 and 62 are unacceptable.
I shall now briefly comment on some of the amendments.
The amendments to the recitals which the Commission is able to accept concern greater protection for animals used in experiments, while those which cannot be accepted involve revision of the annexes which we do not consider appropriate in purely technical terms.
Of the unacceptable amendments to the articles, I would like to concentrate on Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 15, which concern the scope of the proposal, and Nos 42 and 43 which aim to extend its scope.
First 12, 13 and 15.
Amendments Nos 42 and 43, finally, aim to introduce economic means or other measures to restrict the use of products containing biocides.
In this connection I can announce that the Commission has embarked on an investigation into how we might best achieve a viable use of pesticides in the future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
And that clarity means trying in principle to indicate the price of the product per unit.
Mr President, we have presented three solutions for that one.
I do not think this has been the most distinguished evening in the history of Parliament.
We are, at this moment, at this very late hour, trying to decide the strengths and weaknesses of the directive.
I introduced Amendment No 45 to make sure that there was a six-year period for implementation, running from 1997 to 2003, thereby overlapping the strained and difficult period which will be covered by the early years of this directive.
Even Amendments Nos 7 and 9 fail to convince me.
A regulation which says that three or four prices must be indicated per product, and even up to six or eight for price reductions does not, to my mind, help the consumer a great deal.
I would like to ask the Commissioner how she sees her proposal for a directive being applied in practice in the transitional period to the Euro as of 1999 and especially in the period between January and July 2002.
They are all really useful, although a little repetitive in themselves: useful for making a directive which on the one hand follows closely both the market as it grows and changes and on the other hand is useful for the requirements of the final customer who is able to compare prices and quantities.
We also insist on the amendment which calls for the Commission to produce a statement on the financial consequences for the retail trade, especially the small and medium-sized businesses, so that we in this House are better able to evaluate the next stage in the procedure.
My question is: when will the Commission, when will Commissioner Bonino, produce the statement on the financial consequences of this system for the retail trade?
Mr President, some supermarkets already indicate prices per unit.
The point has already been made that the directive allows retailers a period of grace, without in any way affecting the protection given to the consumer.
Anyone wishing to breathe life into the section of the EU Treaty which refers to a high level of consumer protection must, to my mind, be in favour of this report.
Price transparency does not exist - but that was the aim at European level nearly 20 years ago.
If I bought an unwrapped piece of ham, I could see the selling price and the cost per kilo.
If I bought a prepacked item, I could see that there were two pieces, but had no idea how big they were: it would just say 116 grams and the selling price.
I say that people will look back on this debate and I want to put this on the record because I believe that although unit pricing can be of great advantage to consumers in larger shops in the larger supermarkets, when we come to the small shops the directive will introduce an insensitive degree of extra regulation.
Well, Mr President, you come from Italy.
The net result of this directive, unless the burden on small shops is lightened, will be that small shops either narrow the range of their products or else they go out of business.
What we need to do is to put the emphasis on Amendment No 5 in this report and to request the Commission very strongly on behalf of all groups in Parliament that they should come forward before the second reading with some real estimate of the cost of this directive.
This directive creates real problems for small shops and I hope the Commission will address it.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is not inventing a directive.
I have to tell you that there were three complicated and unworkable directives which would have been due to enter into force in 1997, three sets of legislation so complex that they could not, in our opinion, have been applied, but which all the same would have come into force in 1997.
But perhaps the honourable Member ought to answer another question: if the Commission, by agreement, I hope, with Parliament, had not taken this initiative, the transitional period would have ended in 1997 and the three most complicated existing directives would have come into force.
I should really like to ask honourable Members and the whole Parliament to consider the positive aspect of this initiative, benefiting not only consumers but also traders who would otherwise have found themselves, if I may say so, in a desperate situation.
I think we have enough time, between now and 2002, to understand a little better how we can adjust the measure: Parliament is well aware what great importance the Commission attaches to the problem of the single currency, in particular as regards consumers, so I do not want to commit us to a decision today.
We therefore maintain our proposal of two years, with a report on the situation as regards entry into force.
That said, I should just like to say in conclusion that by striving to improve we often mar what is good and that this report or this directive could certainly be improved in one way or another, but they do seem to me to simplify existing legislation and, I think, to help small- and medium-scale businesses.
I should finally very much to thank Parliament for its time - I know you have very much speeded up your work - to thank the rapporteur for her dedication and also the chairman of the committee; they have given me the opportunity - for which I am very grateful - to take this directive the Consumer Council next Tuesday.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at noon tomorrow. (The sitting was closed at 12.35 a.m.)
