Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 23 October 1998.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 23 October 1998 have been distributed.
Mrs Aelvoet, that letter did indeed reach me yesterday, and it was immediately forwarded to the European Commission, because in the letter, the Committee on Foreign Affairs asked for the Commission to be invited to make a statement pursuant to Rule 37 of our Rules of Procedure.
We cannot require it to do so.
The worst thing is that it appears that the European Commission has not yet concluded its debate and resolution on enlargement, and we are expecting Commissioner van den Broek to arrive at any minute bearing the latest information.
I understood, and so did my colleagues from Northern Ireland, that we would have an opportunity to thank you for your welcome to the folks from Northern Ireland and especially the members of the new assembly.
However, I would suggest to this House today that, as the people of Northern Ireland see some 200 convicted terrorists released on the streets, without any effort on the part of the terrorists to hand in their weapons, it as a democratic parliament would want to lend its voice in support of those who want to support the democratic way, and urge them to do it democratically, hand in their weapons and rid us of the plague of terrorism on both sides of the divide.
Mr President, all I would like to say is to express my deep appreciation to you and to the Members of this House for the welcome they have given today to the members of the Northern Ireland Assembly.
The Minutes are clearly not a verbatim record, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, but if you think that your remarks have not been accurately reflected, I would ask you to let us have the precise text of what you said in writing and it will be corrected in the Minutes.
Thank you, Mr Rosado.
Mr President, I would like to return to the agenda and in particular to what Mr Theonas said.
This means that the results of this discussion in the Commission this morning are still being elaborated into the final text of the report which I do not have with me for that particular reason.
But I hope that after I have made my statement on the regular reports, there will be some understanding of the intensity and the scope we have tried to cover in these regular reports.
These reports will provide the basis for the discussions on enlargement at the Vienna European Council in mid-December.
Compiling these reports has been a huge task.
As last year, the Commission would not have been able to produce this work without information and advice from the candidates themselves, Member States and international organizations.
The European Parliament, and in particular its many rapporteurs, have also made a professional and valuable contribution to the EU's work on enlargement.
Our assessment has been conducted on the basis of the same Copenhagen criteria as the opinions last year.
The reports show that much has been achieved but that there is also still a huge task for the candidate countries in preparing themselves for EU membership.
Our assessment does not lead us to propose the extension of negotiations to any further candidates this year.
In the case of Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia we conclude that the rate of progress has been sufficient to hold out the possibility of a positive recommendation regarding the opening of negotiations at the end of 1999 for Latvia.
For Lithuania and Slovakia we also hope to be able to recommend the opening of negotiations within a reasonable period.
This approach provides a clear political recognition of the progress that Latvia and to a somewhat lesser extent Lithuania have made to prepare for membership over the past 18 months.
I shall discuss in more detail the reasons for highlighting these three countries in a moment.
In addition to the conclusions concerning Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia, we issue a stern reminder to the negotiating countries and in particular to the Czech Republic and Slovenia that they need to speed up their adoption and implementation of the acquis .
Another recommendation of a somewhat different nature is that the Council of Ministers should reconfirm its commitment to the aims and format of the European Conference as set out in the Luxembourg European Council conclusions.
In the case of all ten countries of Central and Eastern Europe, I shall briefly set out our assessment on the political criterion, the economic criteria, both of which are conditions for starting negotiations and on the adoption of the acquis , as well as each candidate's administrative capacity.
I will then make a few remarks on Cyprus, Turkey and Malta.
In last year's opinions the Commission concluded that all the candidate countries, except Slovakia, broadly met the political criterion for membership.
Regarding respect for minority rights and other political criteria, the situation of the Roma in the candidate countries continues to be a cause of concern.
This new situation also allows for the prospect of opening negotiations on condition that the regular, stable and democratic functioning of institutions is confirmed.
It will also be necessary before opening negotiations to verify that Slovakia has undertaken measures to correct the economic situation and has introduced greater transparency in its operation.
As far as the economic criteria of Copenhagen are concerned, these focus on two particular issues.
Overall, the candidate countries continued to make considerable progress in implementing economic reforms.
I mentioned Latvia and Slovakia earlier.
Clearly one has to strengthen the administrative capacity and the judiciary in order not only to adopt but also to implement the acquis .
The negotiations are on track and continuing and we still hope that the situation will allow the Turkish Cypriots to participate in these negotiations.
Mr President, Commissioner van den Broek just said, with reference to the progress made by Lithuania, that this progress must not, however, take the place of negotiations.
The Commission knows it has ten minutes.
If the momentum of change is maintained it should be possible next year to confirm that Latvia meets the Copenhagen economic criteria and before the end of 1999 to propose the opening of negotiations.
Finally, on Slovakia, the new situation created following the election also allows for the prospect of opening negotiations on condition that the regular stable and democratic functioning of its institutions are confirmed.
All these countries would be eligible for enlargement and all form part of an enlargement process.
It was already a market economy and it is therefore now in the negotiating process.
So we made a regular report based on Article 28 including conclusions from Cardiff, including our comments on progress in the European strategy for Turkey and so forth.
As far as the enlargement process is concerned and Slovakia's place therein, we would be delighted to see a situation develop in which the stability of the political institutions, its democratic nature, the respect for human rights and the rule of law, including respect for the rights of minorities, would be confirmed.
Mr Barón Crespo will be aware of this.
Mr President, Mr van den Broek, we welcome the fact that the Commission is showing a certain flexibility and is, after all, following this Parliament's idea of a starting-line.
One thing we want to try to avoid is that where we urge the Member States to make progress with Agenda 2000 - and we have made the proposals for that - we should not threaten the candidate countries and undermine their confidence by saying we are taking into account some delays in the European Union not to move them forward towards negotiations or to make progress with the screening etc.
Finally, you know full well that when Agenda 2000 was presented last year, it was the Commission referring to the Treaty of Amsterdam, which gave clear preference to having the whole of the institutional debate in an intergovernmental conference, completed before the first enlargement, before the first new member entered.
Estonia is already part of the first wave but has it made sufficient progress in the treatment of its Russian-speaking minority and is Latvia not now overtaking Estonia in this respect?
There is still legislation to be adopted in Estonia.
That has been enumerated both by the Luxembourg and Cardiff conclusions and the European strategy for Turkey is perfectly clear with all that it implies for preparation of membership.
What cannot be solved so immediately is that it is a country with a still very considerable agricultural sector and with quite significant environmental problems.
It is always tempting to speak about very clear-cut dates but, especially with regard to membership, we know that many of negotiating countries at present are taking the working hypothesis that they will become full members in 2002 or, most of them, in 2003.
My only answer is that I hope this is so.
That is the text in the conclusions of the composite paper.
I would like you to give us the real reason for this delay and also to bear in mind that in Madrid in 1995 it was decided that negotiations would start with Malta six months after the end of the IGC.
So it is very close.
In the report on Cyprus there is an economic analysis.
As I said quite frankly, so far our conclusion is that it is not enough of a political priority in the policies of the countries concerned.
Mr President, thank you at any rate to the Commission for announcing this to Parliament first rather than the press, and also for telling us that some countries have made real progress and have thus moved up a step in terms of accession negotiations.
As far as the negotiations with the Six themselves are concerned, we will have the first ministerial negotiations on 10 November.
The common positions of the EU Council will be established on 9 November at the General Affairs Council.
I am grateful to Commissioner van den Broek for making himself available to allow this debate to be extended, and for the clear answers he has provided to all the questions raised.
The climate change caused by man and its adverse effects on the environment and mankind are the most serious global environmental problem facing us.
Given that the volume of traffic is still rising, however, unless guideline measures are taken in transport policy it will not be possible to reduce CO2 emissions; instead, they will rise by about 30 %.
This brief example of what is involved in climate protection shows that the only way to resolve the problems facing us is by taking an integrated approach which cuts across all policy areas.
We should therefore regard Agenda 2000 and the post-Kyoto climate strategy as the key to integrating the environment and sustainability into other policy areas, as stated in the Commission's communication.
The fifth environmental action programme had already put forward the idea of integrating the environment into other policy areas.
With the call by the heads of state and government on all the appropriate Councils to draw up their own strategies for taking real account of the requirements of the environment and sustainable development in their particular policy area, responsibility for integrating environmental requirements has now been transferred to sectoral level.
It is most welcome to find that these three particular sectors - transport, energy and agriculture - are fully responding to the demands of the Cardiff European Council and drawing up their reports for the Vienna summit.
The presidency and the Commission jointly submitted draft reports on agriculture and transport in the respective Council working groups.
The drafts of these three reports now before us show that efforts have clearly been made to comply with the requirements set out by the Commission in its communication and by the European Council in Cardiff.
All the reports will indicate both the measures already taken and activities for the future.
Measures to integrate environmental protection into this Community sector have been defined for the single energy market in relation to energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and the framework programme on energy.
The Commission has drawn up and submitted a number of proposals to help resolve this problem, which the Council will be considering without delay.
The forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy under Agenda 2000 will bring further, major progress towards integration, for example in relation to rural development.
The motion for a resolution contains a large number of calls on the European Council and the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Parliament's Committee on the Environment for tabling this motion for a resolution on what is one of the most important issues in environment policy, namely the integration of environmental aspects into other Community policies.
We need to make changes in these policies in order to improve the environment.
It is exactly the same when it comes to implementing the Kyoto protocol.
The requirement of sustainable development now occupies a central place in the Treaty, since it is included in one of the first articles.
We all know how difficult it is to persuade those responsible for the individual sectors - whether in the Commission, the Council or Parliament - to get to grips with environmental questions, in other words to tackle the environmental aspects, and - perhaps even more difficult - to coordinate their efforts.
The Commission's communication to the Cardiff summit and the clear and positive response it received have set a process in motion.
This task is not without difficulties, since it is with the help of indicators that we can obtain very precise information on the state of the environment, if we know the right indicators to use and use them correctly.
The Commission has also committed itself to carrying out environmental assessments of its major proposals, and you will see the first practical demonstration of this in the Commission's programme of work for 1999.
I am quite sure that many of these proposals broke new ground in terms of integrating the environment into other policies, such as agriculture and the Structural Funds.
The Commission welcomes Parliament's support in the process, since the motion for a resolution broadly supports the initiatives we have taken hitherto.
I do not entirely understand how it is thought that this could operate in practice, and in fact I believe that our proposal for a directive on strategic environmental assessment already represents a remarkable step forward towards integrating the environmental dimension into Member States' plans and programmes.
I would remind the House that the Commission's communication on Partnership for Integration was also addressed to Parliament, with a request that it should review its own procedures to see how it could increase its contribution to integration.
Mr President, I must say the very existence of this debate today is an example of the cooperation between Parliament and the other institutions.
Articles 2 and 3 of the Amsterdam Treaty state unequivocally that environmental requirements are brought into the definition and implementation of all Community policies and activities.
However, though I do not want to pour cold water on anything, I recall the words of Jacques Delors after the Rio Conference some years ago.
The European Union has a tremendously significant role in this.
within the single market, the sustainability framework and the integration framework.The holistic approach is essential if we are to create real sustainability as outlined by the Fifth Environmental Action Plan which, after all, was developed in a straight line from Brundtland in 1987 to Rio in 1992 and Agenda 21.
Environment policy clearly has to be integrated into all policy areas.
Therefore, paragraph 10 and its instruction to the Council of Ministers to monitor Member States' action in implementing the communication and partnership for integration is important.
Madam President, I think we are all entitled to congratulate ourselves on this joint debate between the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
It is also important for us to consider the implementation of what is already contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam, which it is to be hoped will soon be ratified by all the Member States.
What we do here at European Union level serves as an example to the Member States.
Sustainable, environmentally friendly development in the Union has been enshrined as our aim for many years now.
We have committed ourselves to a definite target: an 8 % reduction in emissions in the European Union.
The forthcoming AGENDA 2000 programme now under discussion in Parliament and the Council is a concrete indication of where we really want to be heading.
But at the same time we need a sense of common purpose.
Only Europe can set an example of sustainable development, because we know that since Rio we have had anything but sustainable development, especially outside our continent.
Let me reiterate my thanks to the Commission for its very successful negotiations with the European car industry: 15 % along the road to the Kyoto target, one seventh of the way, is a good start.
It must be followed by further European and also national measures.
Even if it is not likely to produce the kind of results we saw in Kyoto, in the sense of defining major objectives, it will have to be a milestone towards laying down the rules of play, rules of play on which the European Union will have a real say, rules of play which make it clear that climate protection is one of the most important tasks on the way to achieving sustainable development, which is to say that it is also one of the great challenges.
Clearly, financial resources play a major role in environment policy, but here in Parliament - and for that matter in the Council - it is known only too well what kind of difficulties we have encountered every single time we have tried to achieve any Community results in this sector.
I naturally hope that Parliament has noted the presidency's positive comments on the agreement with the car industry on CO2 emissions.
Let me end by saying that there is no doubt that practising integration is difficult, but on the other hand it is also necessary if we are to find the solution to our environmental problems now and in the future.
This requires all sectors to simply accept that they represent both part of the problem and part of the solution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since September 1992 we have had two further directives in the European Union concerning the approximation of legislative and administrative provisions applicable to medicinal products and laying down additional rules for homeopathic medicinal products for both human and veterinary use.
Article 6(1) says that each Member State must take due account of registrations and authorisations previously granted by another Member State.
On the one hand there are no scientific arguments to justify this exclusion and, on the other hand, some Member States do use this specially simplified registration procedure for certain forms of administration.
This is restricted to pet animals or exotic animals and not animals used for human consumption.
Manufacturers claim that an indication of this kind discriminates against their products in favour of other medicines, and is pointless given that therapeutic indication is not part of the registration procedure.
Article 9(2) says that homeopathic medicinal products not eligible for a special simplified registration procedure are to be evaluated and either approved or not on the basis of four other directives.
Under that article, however, Member States are allowed - but not obliged - to introduce or apply special rules for pharmacological, toxicological and clinical testing in accordance with the principles and special characteristics of homeopathic medicine as practised in the Member State concerned.
Some Member States have done this, but most have not or have not done so yet, with distortions of competition as a result.
Homeopathic medicines and the way in which people use them varies very widely in the way in which they are perceived.
The committee feels that a system of reciprocal recognition regarding these products should be adopted so that safety criteria for the recognition scheme can be defined at EU level, and the first Member State in which a product is registered should assess and document to what extent these jointly determined criteria are met.
Under this fifth framework research programme, and on the basis of the requests made in the report, support should be given to research activities in the field of alternative medicine, with special reference to individual and general procedures, and to the preventive roles and special features of alternative medical disciplines.
This was of quite particular concern to us, since we should also remember that in recent years the demand for homeopathic medicines has risen in most European countries, and that according to the Commission it now accounts for a share of over 1 %, in some countries even over 5 % of the gross sales of the European pharmaceutical industry; I believe we must take that into account in research as well.
Homeopathic product sales are rising, and now account on average for 1 % of sales of medicinal products, with much higher percentages in some countries.
So it seems only right and proper that we should look at this issue again on the basis of the report the Commission has presented to Parliament on the application of the 1992 Directives.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this report the European Parliament welcomes the Commission's report on the application of Directives 92/73 and 92/74.
The European Union can no longer bury its head in the sand, thanks to pressure both from the European Parliament and from members of the public and their organisations.
Firstly, it would be desirable to have greater mutual recognition in practice, but it would then be necessary - and an absolute precondition for such greater mutual recognition - for us to have a knowledge of the method of registration in the individual countries.
So there must be well-documented registration, on a basis which is as scientific as possible.
And secondly, as I said, this therefore means that we must have a requirement for individual countries to publish their lists of homeopathic medicines and also to explain how they are approved, for example whether they have been approved under Articles 7 and 8, because in that case we have already come a good deal of the way.
Secondly, the approval of a product must not mean that all the Member States have to accept a medicine which might have been accepted by only one of them, whose laxness could be dangerous and could put patients at risk.
On the contrary, an assessment must be carried out in each Member State, in accordance with criteria providing full guarantees of quality and harmlessness - all of which, I must stress, is for the protection of patients.
To conclude, if these conditions are not clearly expressed in the report, our group will vote against the motion for a resolution.
Thus the report quite rightly argues in favour of a new text which precludes any difficulties of interpretation and is binding in nature.
We agree that work is needed to determine the conditions under which national approval should be recognised by other Member States.
A considerable amount of time and money is wasted as a result.
Mr President, I have to admit that I have found it very difficult to take a firm position in an argument which is still very obscure and difficult to assess.
It is true that these concepts are, like all science, not fixed in stone, but it is equally clear that science needs to find an answer not only for the authorities, but above all for consumers, and that answer must reconcile those two facts.
Secondly, Chapters IV and V of Directive 92/75 on principles and guidelines for good production and laboratory practices must also be applied in full to all homeopathic medicinal products.
As you know, patients - in other words the consumers - are reacting more and more positively to these medicinal products in Europe.
In my view, mutual recognition of registrations and authorisations in the Member States of the European Union is important, as is extending the forms of use to parenteral administration, while adhering to the stringent conditions governing quality and safety tests for the consumer which are already in force now.
We already have a considerable number of scientific reports on the subject, and we should further develop and support these initiatives.
Let me say in conclusion that I have learned from numerous conversations with colleagues in the veterinary field that it is essential to organic farming that we no longer exclude homeopathic medicinal products for food-producing animals from the simplified registration procedure.
However, there have been problems with the implementation of this in certain Member States and thus the Commission's current approach is welcome.
It is really important that we deal with this issue because of the increasing popularity of homeopathic products in particular and of natural and alternative medicine in general.
Citizens throughout Europe have a right to have these products circulating freely in the Member States under single market rules as much as any other product, provided that all considerations of safety and efficacy are properly applied.
So I hope the Commission takes note that the instruments are there by which we could carry out testing and make sure that the harmonisation of homeopathic medicinal products with therapeutic indications is properly tested.
I have tabled certain amendments.
That is the law in my Member State and in the UK and we wish to continue that practice.
Parliament has clarified its position today with its report and this debate.
We also know that the current state of affairs is not satisfactory.
So this exchange of ideas is very helpful.
That is why the obligation of mutual recognition must go hand in hand with a more carefully defined simplified registration procedure.
Of course, that would require the cooperation of the Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
In the report by its committee of inquiry, the European Parliament called on the Commission to include primary agricultural products in the European Union's product liability directive, which has been in force since 1985.
The Commission is doing one thing: it is pursing its lips, but you are not whistling, Mr Monti.
I and a colleague from another group have tabled some compromise amendments for the plenary in order to offer Members of both Parliament and the Commission an alternative.
But we cannot in my view do any less.
Mr President, in view of its positive impact on consumer protection, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights welcomes the proposal for a directive, which, by widening the scope of producers' liability for defective products to cover all movables, extends the 1985 Directive to include agricultural products.
This proposal could be made after examination of the Commission's forthcoming report on the implementation of Directive 85/374, due to be published in the year 2000.
Mr President, I do not want to follow the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in their discussion of whether this report is in order or not.
That is one of the problems with Amendment No 12 as it stands.
The problem is that we need to look very carefully at the Member States and at their liability laws is to see where development risk leads us if it is included or excluded.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have to discuss the extension to agricultural products of the scope of Directive 85/374/EEC on liability for defective products.
The rapporteur's proposals alter the balance between consumer protection and legal certainty for economic operators.
There has been no compromise with other political groups and some amendments are only supported by 29 Members.
I would therefore like to refer to Amendment No 9, where we specify that every five years the Commission is to present a report to Parliament and the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a European Commission proposal which aims to extend the Community provisions on no-fault liability for defective products to primary agricultural products and game.
She would actually like to rewrite all the provisions on defective products, and not just agricultural products, which does not seem to me to be very fair, particularly as the European Commission is preparing a review of this directive on defective products for next year and particularly as certain Member States, such as France, have only just transposed the general directive into their own laws.
The rapporteur also wants to take over and alter certain conditions already laid down in the previous directive.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt, if you gave a product to your children and you realised later that it was defective, even though you had no proof, would you still change all that?
This exclusion clause has been adopted by some Member States in order to develop their pharmaceutical research potential.
The removal of this exclusion clause by the European Parliament would cause European research and innovation to be relocated to competing countries which have not accepted such a provision or which still offer incentives.
Furthermore, this exclusion clause was enshrined in law by the Court of Justice in a decision of 29 May 1998.
The maintenance of the clause is also justified as it does not leave the injured person without any redress, since the latter will be able to rely on rights recognised under the contractual, extracontractual or social liability systems, i.e.
It should have meant protection for the consumer.
I am in favour of those changes, because I think the position of consumers and producers should be the same.
Under French law, the concept of 'probable' does not exist and is difficult to define in my opinion.
Mr President, I have two basic quarrels with the draft report which has been presented and the amendments which have been put down.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while considering the extension of the directive on liability for defective products to primary agricultural products and game, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection thought it advisable to adopt certain amendments, taking over provisions which were fiercely discussed during preparatory work on the original directive, but were ultimately rejected.
Firstly, there is legitimate doubt about the validity of the manoeuvre to alter the 1985 directive instead of confining ourselves to the proposal for a directive submitted to us by the Commission.
Of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, those numbered 2 to 9 relate to this original directive, and not to the directive proposed by Parliament and the Council which has been submitted to us.
Nevertheless, we must all learn some lessons from this report.
As has already been established, Community legislation takes precedence.
This radical change to traditional jurisprudence meant and still means that, out of concern for a degree of balance, there have to be limits on this liability: limits in time, a limited period in which proceedings may be brought, and rules to cover 'development risks'.
Between 1985 and the present day, agriculture itself has radically changed and technology has made great strides in this sector.
But between 1985 and the present day, we also had the crisis over BSE.
This is a very serious matter, but when you say that ten years is not enough, I as a layman simply have to ask the lawyers: will that mean in future that the person who inherits a farm will somehow or other also have to take over the product liability of the person who left it to him, such as his father, or what does it mean?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of agriculture, let me point out how important it is to have sensible rules for farmers on defective products.
She knows quite well that difficulties are more likely to spur me on.
From their point of view it is of course precipitate, because if a Member State transposes legislation ten years too late, in 1998 instead of 1988, it will not necessarily want it to be amended again just a few months later.
I have merely changed the burden of proof for products that no longer exist.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive being debated today is a response to the European Parliament's recommendation following the BSE crisis.
This called for a proposal no later than September 1997 to extend the no-fault civil liability system provided for by Directive 85/374/EEC to primary agricultural products and game.
So the Commission considered it appropriate to put forward a proposal within the suggested deadline, and did so on 1 October 1997.
The 1985 Directive gave consumers the right to compensation for injury resulting from a defective product without having to prove that the producer was at fault.
The amendments in the first group are broadly intended to revise the basic 1985 Directive well beyond the Commission's objective, which is limited to extending the directive to primary agricultural products: these are Amendments Nos 3 to 9 and 11 to 15, on the burden of proof, risks in new developments, psychological injury, immunity, time-barring of rights, maximum liability and revision of the directive in 2000.
The second group of amendments seek to specify certain points exclusively concerning agricultural inputs: these are Amendments Nos 1 and 2 on liability for intermediate products and means of production, and Amendment No 10 on the obligation to submit a report on the implementation of the directive in 2002.
But the issues raised by Amendments Nos 3 to 9 and 11 to 15 call for more detailed examination than is carried out in the committee's report.
That examination should take place in a wider context than the BSE crisis.
The Commission takes the view that the next report on the implementation of the directive, which the Commission is to present to Parliament and the Council in 2000, may provide the best and most appropriate occasion for it.
The report will be preceded by a Green Paper and full consultation open to all interested sectors.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The beginning of that programme coincides with the beginning of the new millennium and signals a new era for the European Community and for Europe's citizens.
With this new programme, culture is for the first time being dealt with as a whole within the framework of a single programme which replaces the three existing ones.
This will make the actions more appropriate in each case, taking into account the special needs of each cultural sector, but also allowing horizontal synergies to enhance cooperation with other programmes.
I would also like to mention the development of European cultural resources.
The first concerns cultural cooperation agreements.
Let us not forget that the new programme concerns Europe's cultural future for which we bear full responsibility on behalf of young people in Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the past the European Parliament has often expressed the importance it attaches to culture and to Europe's cultural future.
In parallel, we will be confirming our political will to support cultural activity in the European Union and to create a single European cultural area within which the cultural individualities and values of our countries can flourish and develop.
Besides, according to the statement of 6 March 1995, that sum is a preferential reference for the Budget Authority in the context of the annual budget procedure.
Consequently, the amount proposed should not create conflict between the Council and Parliament or polarisation within the Council itself.
Let me explain that in the Committee on Budgets we did not increase the sum proposed by the Commission, but in the spirit of the statement of 6 March 1995 we proposed that it should be possible to review the sum within the annual budget procedure, up to a level of 20 %.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal to establish the European Union's first framework programme for culture comes in response to wishes expressed by both the Council and the European Parliament.
Parliament had hoped to increase it by some 40 %.
I agree with that and I think the financing must be raised to at least ECU 250 million to make the activities possible.
It is essential that we regard our cultural heritage as a primary resource for the European Union, which is approaching the threshold of 2000 with great challenges to face, such as enlargement, globalisation, the growth of the information society, employment and social cohesion.
The framework programme for culture will encourage creativity, knowledge and the dissemination of the culture of the peoples of Europe, through a sectoral approach which has the flexibility to promote synergy between various sectors of the arts and new forms of expression.
The programme aims to encourage cooperation at regional level between cultural organisations, operators and institutions in the Member States, promoting the affirmation of cultural creativity by ensuring the vitality of artistic projects, and supporting measures whose European profile will throw European culture into bold relief.
In conclusion, through cooperation between the Member States, the Culture 2000 programme must aim to encourage the conservation of movable and fixed heritage, by identifying the common European origins from which the diversity of national cultures has sprung.
Mr President, my first task must be to congratulate Mrs Mouskouri on her excellent work - a Greek singer was surely the ideal person to carry out this work in our committee. ' Culture 2000' represents the European Union's cultural approach for the next few years and into the 21st century.
To gather within one programme the Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael programmes which have allowed 1 400 cultural projects to benefit from financial support from the Union.
Various countries of the Union, in partnership, have therefore been able, through cultural and artistic events, to develop the richness of our heritage, the diversity of our culture and the value of its complementarity.
I believe that this is the best way to ensure greater participation and improved access to culture for everyone in each of the sectors concerned.
Specifically, the audiovisual and tourism sectors have also been identified as the most hopeful in this area.
I hope that the ECU 250 million voted by the Committee on Culture will be adopted by the Council of Ministers.
I think it is very important that the sum set aside to support this programme should be increased to ECU 250 million.
Mr President, firstly I congratulate Nana Mouskouri on a very good report.
She has a great name in music already and she will now have a great name in cultural policy in Europe.
Music is very important in the European Union.
Some 350, 000 people are employed in the music industry and there is a turnover over ECU 15 billion per year.
For the first time we are going to fund a European jazz orchestra, the European Youth Jazz Swinging Europe which I also welcome.
I hope Commissioner Oreja has read that and will respond to the very good suggestions that EFAH gives us as well.
However, there is a large shadow hanging over this instrument.
As everyone has said, it is high time for us to have a common approach and coherence and some common goals in European Union cultural policy that add value to the actions that nation states take.
This is very hard when only 17 % of cultural action will in any sense come from this programme.
Mr President, a framework programme for culture is a step forward towards asserting the fact that culture should be playing the role of vehicle and lynchpin in the process of European construction.
The European programme for culture, if it is to play a useful role, must be broadly based and flexible so that it can ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I should particularly like to thank Nana Mouskouri for all her hard work on this Culture 2000 report, and I support her central demand for more funding.
This statement by the great European political figure Jean Monnet clearly illustrates the importance of culture in the European integration process.
Applicants would find things a good deal easier if more help was provided on the Internet or through data banks, and if there was greater transparency and more information on the programmes.
I would venture to say that, without a good cultural policy, the deepening and widening of the European Union is in jeopardy.
I hope we can agree and get a satisfactory result, ideally before Christmas.
In this context, it is entirely appropriate to develop a framework programme in support of this sensitive and important sector and to ensure also that our citizens become more involved in building the new Europe.
Moving on to the amendments, the Commission can accept the majority of the 31 amendments put forward by Parliament.
It accepts Amendments Nos 2, 5, 6, 7, 9, 13 and 21, in the sense that they improve the text of the Commission's proposal.
The Commission accepts the spirit of Amendments Nos 12, 23, 28, 29 and 31, and in part the spirit of Amendments Nos 10, 15 and 19.
Finally, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 4 and 14 in part, as they are in line with the Commission's proposals.
Nevertheless, the Commission wishes to maintain its initial position in the case of 14 amendments, which are as follows.
Concerning Amendment No 8, the Commission wishes to retain the entire phrase in the recital, as it is an integral part of the text of Agenda 2000.
With regard to Amendments Nos 4 and 14, the Commission cannot accept the reference to 'affirmation of identity vis-à-vis third parties', and prefers to retain the notion of dialogue with cultures in the outside world.
As for Amendments Nos 17 and 20 on the implementation of the programme, it is the Commission's view that cooperation with Member States should be taken for granted, and should not appear in the heading of Article 4.
As regards the types of actions referred to in Amendments Nos 15 and 23, the spirit of which is acceptable in part, and in Amendment No 22 which is rejected, the Commission understands Parliament's desire to ensure that every cultural and artistic discipline is covered by the programme, and it agrees to the inclusion of the notions of vertical and horizontal measures in Article 2 and also, for reference, in the annex.
Concerning the budget - Amendment No 16 - the Commission is grateful to Parliament for demonstrating once again its interest in and support for the Community's cultural action.
It is bound to point out, however, that the proposed budget of ECU 167 million was arrived at on the basis of the budget programming authorised by our institutions and may only be revised by the two arms of the budgetary authority, Parliament and the Council.
The debate is closed.
and resumed at 9 p.m.) Removing obstacles to trade The next item is the report (A4-0385/98) by Mr Skinner, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal for a Council Regulation creating a mechanism whereby the Commission can intervene in order to remove certain obstacles to trade (COM(97)0619 - C4-0011/98-9348/98 - C4-0441/98-97/0330(CNS)).
In Kent, in the south-east of England, we have had to deal with some pretty severe problems.
The Committee on Legal Affairs gave priority to considering two aspects: the proposal's legal base and its added value.
As a result, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights agrees entirely that Article 235 provides an appropriate legal base.
Concerning Amendment No 13, it is true that the formalities in Article 169 of the Treaty are essential, and that there is no scope for modifying them in a secondary legislation document such as this.
The remaining amendments are aimed at broadening the scope of the regulation to include serious obstacles to freedom of movement for workers.
Obstacles to freedom of movement for workers are of a different nature.
I refer to Regulation No 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers, and Directive 68/360.
My basic idea is that it is important to improve the free movement of goods and to ban the protectionist measures that still exist in certain Member States, and this is why I welcome this report.
It means that we are creating a special system of legal protection for the movement of goods.
We say that we should not create imbalances between the four freedoms, we should also enforce freedom of movement for workers and thus improve the entire concept of the single market.
Mr Ettl is delighted that this regulation takes account of certain fundamental rights - the right to strike and the right of association.
In my view, there are no circumstances in which exercising the right to strike can involve overturning lorries from another Member State.
The right to strike is subject to certain limitations as to its scope and effects.
I cannot conceive either how one could ever envisage a conflict between the right of association or the right of assembly and the free movement of goods.
Mr President, a report such as this one, on the proposal for a Council Regulation creating a mechanism whereby the Commission can intervene in order to remove certain obstacles to trade, deserves another debate, not the one on the agenda at this time.
The Skinner report was approved last weekend by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
Mr President, I think there is a fundamental problem here.
The right to industrial dispute is an attempt to put such disputes on a legal footing, and it only works where there are guaranteed rights for both sides - not just individual freedoms or rights of ownership, but also rights against arbitrary lockouts and against the criminal prosecution of strikers.
I would say to Mr Wolf that the the legal basis to guarantee strike is not subtle but very fundamental.
I am very pleased that this is accepted for the first time in many Member States.
The UK, for example, in this regulation now has the first mention of legally free strikes.
Mr President, I want to thank Parliament sincerely for examining this proposal for a regulation with great skill and thoroughness.
As we know, the non-fulfilment procedure set out in Article 169 is liable to be a very slow and ineffective mechanism in this kind of situation.
Some of the amendments being debated today seek to extend the scope of the regulation to obstacles to the free movement of workers, which is covered by Article 48 of the Treaty.
The other amendments propose changes to the procedure provided for in Article 5 of the regulation, on the notification the Commission is empowered to send to the Member States.
This is a regulation based on Article 235, and as such it cannot interfere with the scope of Article 169 and the freedom of action that article confers on the Commission.
In conclusion, Mr President, the Commission considers that the compromise proposal, which found a unanimous consensus in the Internal Market Council of 18 May 1998, will be capable of adding the value the European Council asked for.
The appropriate instrument already exists for dealing with amendments concerning freedom of movement for workers, an issue which is of such concern to us all.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
For both 1998 and 1999, the European Commission has made the encouraging of small businesses one of the pillars of its employment policy, quite properly pointing to the economic factors underpinning its policy on jobs.
But what people care about most is not so much the talking, but the answer to the question of whether SMEs are present as a factor to be considered in all areas of policy, whether they are considered in the best way possible, and whether all efforts on the SME front are coordinated as efficiently as possible.
But in fact SMEs are of course a difficult sector, not only because the sector itself is not homogeneous, but also because policy is a horizontal affair which interfaces and intersects with the most diverse of policy areas, where powers rest with the European Commission, with the European Union and with Member States, and where the powers at each of these policymaking levels are spread over a variety of departments.
My final comment is that a good policy is not only effective and successful, but credible.
The report seems timid and is limited to an overview of small and medium-sized companies without putting forward proposals which would introduce a breath of fresh air.
The need to lighten the fiscal load on labour is now clearly recognised by all the main political players.
Finally, an optimal partnership is needed between European institutions, Member States, regional and local authorities, professional organisations and the SMEs themselves.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report clearly describes the aims which a sensible SME policy must pursue in the new millennium.
The second approach recommended in the report is also a step in the right direction.
Mr President, I sense a certain amount of scepticism from our rapporteur about the usefulness of this repetitive and routine exercise which the Commission's biannual report on the coordination of activities in favour of SMEs and the craft sector has become.
We all know, however, what an essential role SMEs play in terms of innovation, job creation and regional development, particularly in rural areas.
In France, for example, 37 % of employees work in enterprises with less than 20 workers, and two-thirds in enterprises with less than 100 workers.
The craft sector represents 13 % of the working population and employment is increasingly shifting towards the SMEs.
However, I would point out that both the Commission's coordination report and the present report clearly show once again just how far the obsession with subsidies dominates our economic thinking.
Yet the form of cooperation involved not only brings business advantages, but is also very much in keeping with the spirit of the single market.
That is indeed the case, but I would ask them not to see that as a lack of respect for the work done in the other committees.
Mr President, I am grateful to the European Parliament for its unswerving commitment to the Commission's efforts to promote schemes for small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular for its contribution to the Commission's 1997 report on the coordination of Community activities to assist SMEs and the craft sector.
The final results will be available before the end of 1998.
In this context, a very special focus will be placed on supporting SME development and entrepreneurship.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 10.15 p.m.)
