Resumption of the Session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 15 November 1996.
The reason this House is so empty just now is because there are over 200 Members trying to get up in the lifts.
Mr President, my point is not related to the point just raised by Mr Corrie.
The event was organized in conjunction with Parliament's services and yet on their arrival today they encountered long delays in entering and their technicians encountered an attitude little short of hostile from some of Parliament's staff.
Urgent political matters The next item is the communication from the Commission on urgent political subjects of major importance.
Mr President, over the last couple of weeks the world has witnessed dramatic developments in the Great Lakes region which have created new and tremendous humanitarian political challenges: the massive return of refugees from Eastern Zaire to Rwanda within a few days but also the dispersion of hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced people in Eastern Zaire creating a dangerous new potential for destabilization.
The government and the transitional parliament are deeply divided over the question of how to deal with the crisis in Eastern Zaire while the rebels and their allies are gaining ground very rapidly.
I proposed to the Development and General Affairs Council a plan of action for European Union assistance to the Great Lakes region which we hope will provide a comprehensive framework for all relevant humanitarian, political and development issues.
A taskforce of DG VIII is working out the details of this plan after an assessment mission to the region in coordination with ECHO and the special envoy, and taking into account regional and international peace-building efforts as well as the activities of other donors.
These aspects are present in some form or other in all the countries concerned but not with equal intensity and we will have to focus the priorities in each country.
Beyond the immediate humanitarian urgency this is also crucial for the political future of the country and for social peace between the ethnic communities.
The common position of the countries of the region in the next meeting of the Arusha process scheduled for early December in Congo will be crucial to oblige the Burundian political forces to engage in longawaited negotiations.
The Arusha process has been the most important forum addressing the conflicts in the region and this process could be turned into permanent conference mechanisms for central and eastern Africa.
These are seven principles: respect for the frontiers and the territorial integrity of all countries involved; respect for international humanitarian law with regard to refugees and displaced people; effective protection of minorities and their civic rights; respect for human rights and the rule of law and the re-establishment of functioning and equitable justice systems; condemnation and effective legal prosecution of ethnic discrimination, ethnicist propaganda and all kinds of activities inspired by ethnic hatred; respect for democratic principles and constitutional order; establishment of a regional framework for economic cooperation in global coordination of rehabilitation.
In my opinion the conference should not only produce a multilateral peace agreement but it should also be a forum for discussing the required international assistance to consolidate such an agreement and to implement its decisions.
The conference would thus become the cornerstone of a peace strategy linking the regional efforts and commitments of the international community.
Unfortunately this has not yet been solved at UN security level, nor has it been solved at Council level in the European Union.
The problem with arms supplies to both sides, both the Hutus and the Tutsis, is that it means that this war is solely being waged with arms and not with political arguments.
It is difficult to assess in full the current number of refugees in Eastern Zaire.
One thing is sure: the situation in Zaire is far from being secure and therefore it will be extremely difficult to ask NGOs to go.
I hope everyone will then take up his responsibilities.
As you know, unfortunately in international diplomacy it is very rare that someone puts things as straightforwardly as you would like.
Today, the arguments about the numbers of refugees still remaining in the area are more heated than ever.
As you know, Rwanda is still refusing to accept humanitarian aid or do anything to control the return of the refugees.
In Burundi we are approaching the problem through the Arusha regional group, in other words, through the points that have been agreed upon by the states of the region.
I hope this week.
One of the questions was: what is standing in the way of the Council sending in a military force?
And the third question: you spoke about the conference on peace in the region.
The Council does not have the power to decide but it has the power to approve declarations and to put pressure on those who have to decide.
Besides what I have already said about Rwanda, I should like to emphasize that the Commission has made available all the funds it could at this stage - both through NGOs and UN agencies - in order to make things work down there as much as possible.
So far the Rwandan authorities have been very cooperative in many ways and I am encouraged by that.
I hope it will continue in the future.
Only a peace conference under the aegis of the United Nations could make a tentative start to improving the situation.
Mr President, there are three questions I would like to put to the Commission on this subject.
At present observers could be deployed safely in Rwanda and in some parts of Burundi but in Eastern Zaire it is simply not possible.
I have two questions about Rwanda.
Secondly, you will be aware, Commissioner, that one of the important things we need to ensure is that people in Rwanda have a sense that they are returning to a country that will deliver justice.
The Commission naturally shares the widespread concern about events which are clearly having grave economic and social consequences both inside and outside the country.
Obviously such a dispute with something like 200 blockades throughout France causes hardship and distress both to those directly involved and to many of the innocent victims of the dispute.
As the House will know, both President Santer and myself, on behalf of the Commission, have called upon the French authorities to act urgently to remedy the situation and to ensure that the Treaty provisions relating to freedom of movement in the single market are fully respected.
Of course none of that would excuse inactivity when so many Community citizens and businesses from all Member States are being affected by a dispute in one Member State.
As the House would expect, the Commission is also maintaining close and continuing interest and contact with the French authorities on the course of the dispute.
The number of non-French trucks blocked last weekend was about 20, 000.
Despite this the French authorities have been able to secure the release of another 150 British, Spanish and Portuguese lorries.
The 200 blockades mean however that there has not been significant easing of the overall situation.
I am hopeful that the Transport Ministers Council which meets early next month will make significant progress on this proposal in order to reach a common position under the Dutch presidency in the early part of next year.
In 1995 the Commission convened a meeting with national administrations to promote cooperation between Member States in improving interpretation and enforcement of driving hours' legislation.
On the basis of some recent progress in the joint transport committees between employers and employees, the Commission will be publishing a White Paper on the excluded sectors and we believe that progress may be possible with non-mobile workers in the transport sector.
As far as mobile workers such as truck drivers are concerned, as the House may know, the prospects of progress are much slower and much less evident.
I have to advise the House that the Commission has no legal power to intervene on this specific issue since there is no general Community law which covers the right to compensation for individuals or companies which have been affected by strike action, nor is it likely that there ever will be such law at Community level.
In conclusion, it will be evident to the House that in democratic societies the right to withhold labour is a basic civil liberty and while some Member States specifically recognize that in their laws and their constitutions, the protocol on social policy annexed to the Treaty excludes Community legal competence with regard to the right to strike.
It will be evident to this House and to all other parliaments of the Union that the right to strike must of course be exercised with proper respect for the law and that includes the obligation to maintain the free movement of goods, services and people in the single market, in the European Community.
The average working week for the road haulage profession in France is 62.5 hours.
Commissioner, my question is this: don't you think there is scope for the European Union to try, by means of a directive, to harmonize safety conditions in road haulage throughout the Union?
He will be familiar with the difficulties encountered in many areas of occupation and that certainly applies to the transport sector, including road transport.
The Commission cannot offer a view about the quality or otherwise of conditions in the French haulage sector.
Some of the trucks from my country have been held up into the second week.
Finally, it may well be that the Commission rightly takes on the freedom of movement but it is clear that this is causing extreme damage to drivers and road hauliers from all over the Community and that the control on the application of driving and resting hours is lagging far behind.
We have just received the figures for 1991 and 1992.
We still do not have them for 1993 and 1994 and we know that some Member States do not even hand them in.
The second is negligence by the French Government for failing to uphold the fundamental Treaty provisions on free movement.
On the matter of compensation, I regret that I have nothing to add to the clear statement I made earlier both in terms of the general nature of Community law and in terms of the readiness of the French authorities to establish procedures to enable people who have been damaged as a consequence of this dispute to make appropriate claims through the offices of local préfectures .
At this stage I must say that there would be difficulty in demonstrating satisfactorily that the weaknesses are a consequence of negligence in any legal sense by the French Government.
As far as fundamental Treaty obligations of guaranteeing the freedom of movement of goods and people is concerned, the Commission is willing as on previous occasions to act using our powers under the Treaty in the event of negligence being apparent on the part of a Member State.
In the days of this dispute the readiness of the French authorities to appoint the mediator and to be active in meetings that have lasted up to 12 and 14 hours does not give satisfactory evidence of negligence or of the lack of will to try to maintain the freedom of movement.
Secondly, the Commissioner spoke very clearly regarding the lack of potential compensation for damages suffered already by lorries held up on French territory.
In the Spanish case, losses amount to something in the region of 250 million ecus in terms of perishable goods.
Mr President, Commissioner, with all my customary disrespect for institutions, there are two things I would like to say to you.
And, thirdly, I would like to say to all Members, to everyone who tries to speak in this House about freedom of movement: all social change comes through strikes, and when there is a strike, social change takes place.
I have been informed by the European transport trade unions that because of their intervention the United Kingdom hauliers blocked in Calais have just been released due to an intervention by the unions and I hope that kind of intervention will have wider effects on the nationals and the businesses of other countries.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his explanation and for his efforts.
I share the honourable Member's great anxiety and, as I said earlier, I was very glad to be given the opportunity by him and by his colleagues to make the statement.
The purpose of undertaking strike action of the kind being followed in France is self-evident but to try to develop a Community law that is comparable to the Dutch practice would be extremely difficult.
When we are in the situation, as happens at regular intervals, of individual Member States resisting even the judgments made by the Court of Justice in the course of the law that already exists, no matter how extensive their frustrations - and I certainly understand that - will come to recognize that the proposition being made is unlikely to have practical effects or secure general agreement in the institutions of the Community.
But should not the situation in France prompt the Commission to make it clear to the Council just how important social dialogue in Europe is?
The only way to avoid such fundamental problems and strikes is for the social dialogue to become a basic principle!
The last part of the question is not strictly relevant to the question raised by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Therefore, Mr President, I accept your injunction to focus entirely on issues relating to the road haulage dispute in France, although it is true to say that the general consultation and discussions on the rail White Paper will be continuing and be very extensive involving all the social partners.
As far as the situation in France is concerned, I miss no opportunity with my colleagues in the Transport Council and elsewhere to emphasize the value of what the honourable Member describes and is generally understood to be the social dialogue.
My fundamental concern at this moment is the resolution of a specific dispute.
Commissioner, it is not my intention to harp on about the dispute's prospects, because you have already gone into this, nor about what the Commission is doing.
Any sensible person is going to be deeply worried about the effects of the strike not only in the short term but in the longer term, especially amongst those who rely on road haulage to carry their produce.
So far as other disputes are concerned, it would be unwise of me to try to comment at this juncture on speculation about the extension of the dispute into other transport sectors or other countries.
I have heard during the course of the day, for instance, that a Danish transport dispute is in some way related to what is going on in France.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the Maastricht Treaty the European Parliament is to be consulted on the appointment of the President of the European Monetary Institute, and in fact is required to give an opinion regarding the candidate.
In particular, during the brief period between the spring of 1998, when the decision is made on which countries will be participating, and December 1998 it will be crucial to make the European Central Bank operational as quickly as possible.
We know that the decision on the first President of the Central Bank will be a matter for the heads of State and Government, after consulting the European Parliament, but despite that I thought it was important to obtain such a clear statement of intent from Mr Duisenberg.
He enjoyed pointing out that, in various areas connected with the stability of the guilder, he has actually been more successful than his colleagues in the German Bundesbank.
The President of the European Monetary Institute is also the guarantor of the stability of the European currency.
I should like to say once again why we in the European Parliament, by a very large majority, are convinced of the importance of a stable European currency.
The President of the European Monetary Institute, contrary to the view that had previously prevailed, very quickly recognized the need to find a new mechanism which would both suppress speculation and express solidarity, without depriving the future European Central Bank of its mandatory objective.
But I also expect him to ensure that, before the European central banking system and the European Central Bank itself are set up, all the national central banks are independent.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Madam President, the convergence report bearing my name is the official opinion Parliament must give to the heads of state and governments on the date for the beginning of the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union.
The Treaty states that a start shall be made on 1 January 1999 with the Member States which qualify.
The report which is in my name confirms this conclusion.
As Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs naturally saw this situation coming a long time ago it used this report to pursue another goal, namely to remove the taboo from the flexibility which is included in the criteria in the Treaty.
I believe that Parliament can be well pleased that the Commission adopted the same approach in its recent convergence report of 6 November.
Although the convergence report of 5 November from the European Monetary Institute uses stronger language, there are still no basic differences with it.
Together with the convergence report the Commission published its autumn forecasts based on the latest figures and plans from the Member States.
The whole debate on whether that would not mean that the euro would be too weak seems to me to be spurious.
Our reason for pursuing EMU, leaving aside the basic objective of reinforcing the unification of Europe, is to add strength to the single market and thus to the European Union's competitiveness.
Consequently, in stage three of EMU, it will be necessary to establish a balance between the goal of stability for the single currency and the goal of support for the development efforts of participants and non-participants in EMU.
However, the Commission's proposals not only favour the view that budgetary policy should be totally subordinated to achievement of the objective of monetary stability but also partially alter the overall character of the current arrangements.
Furthermore, the arrangements that are adopted must accord with the Treaty, and even with the adoption of stricter medium-term objectives they should not make the convergence criteria de facto more stringent and should not impede - instead of strengthening - the convergence efforts of Member States participating in and outside EMU.
Madam President, Commissioner, although Parliament has had insufficient time to give full consideration to all the legal problems raised by the introduction of the euro, our committee and our Parliament can approve the broad lines of the two proposals for Regulations you have put before us.
They both represent a sound basis for moving forward to the biggest monetary event of all time.
Never before in the history of our peoples has there been an operation on such a scale, representing such a radical change affecting so many people.
And just because two Member States are temporarily seceding by opting out is no reason to give in to them.
Secondly, the decision you have to take on this is based not on Article 235 but on Article 104, which is an article that can be adopted by a qualified majority.
In addition, I should like to defend two other amendments.
There is the one that says, in particular, that it is the Central Bank that issues the European currency and the national central banks that circulate it.
In the text of the Treaty, the statutes of the Central Bank are equivalent to those of the Treaty, and so when there is a contradiction between the statutes of the Central Bank which form part of the Treaty and the text of the Treaty itself, that contradiction has to be reconciled by interpreting the intent of the authors of the texts.
The true legal expression of the principle that you have so often declared is reflected better in our text than in yours.
Those, Madam President, are three comments I wanted to make.
I was pleased to note that the Commission's intention was to take due account of Parliament's concerns as far as consumer protection is concerned, and that you were intending to submit proposals on that subject shortly, in a different text.
Thank you, Mr Herman.
Verona, Luxembourg and Florence were additional staging posts, at which discussion focused mainly on budgetary discipline and future relations between the Member States inside the euro area and those outside it, within the framework of a possible new EMS II.
Following a vote in favour by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, my report gives timely consideration to the major questions of the future.
It is necessary to ensure that the criteria laid down in the Maastricht Treaty for the introduction of monetary union are complied with.
The general consensus of all Member States in favour of a long-term stability policy at the Dublin Council will be the acid test of whether they do really mean to do as I have just said.
It would certainly be helpful, during the period between 1999 and 2002, to suggest in all public sectors, or to make it compulsory, that all salary payments, fees and other cash transactions should be quoted in euros and in the domestic currency, for the purposes of information, to give the citizen a longer period of acclimatization and so, eventually, shorten the period of dual pricing previously agreed on.
Mr President, before introducing my report on economic and monetary union, and the impact of monetary policies on the real economy, I would like to comment on the debate on EMU as a whole and its reception in my country, the United Kingdom.
Last week a row blew up in London when the government was rightly pilloried for preventing a debate on EMU in the House of Commons, arising from the presentation of EMU-related papers, including some of those we are debating today.
Paragraph 13 of my report contests the fashionable view in London's incestuous media circles that the single currency will not produce jobs.
And in so doing will wholly comply with the commanding Article 2 of the EU Treaty promoting decent jobs and respect for the environment.
The Maastricht Treaty as we have it has some weaknesses which the Harrison report tries to remedy.
Take the European Central Bank which will engage in so compelling a role in all our lives within a few years.
The voter rightly asks what democratic control, what accountability, will be exercised on the Central Bank governor?
A second problem addresses the apparent dislocation in EMU of having a single monetary policy effected by the ECB, whilst complementary fiscal policies will be decided and enacted separately by the 15 Member States.
Imperative however, and far more influential, is to ensure the very greatest coherence between Member States' economic and fiscal planning.
This can be done through greater use of the Treaty's broad economic guidelines and multilateral surveillance procedures.
In both these the European Parliament must be directly involved.
This democratic scrutiny is essential and in part answers the hysterical response of the Tory Eurosceptics' claim that the European Commission is secretly taking a major role in coordinating Member States' budgetary and economic planning.
The final area that I would like to highlight in my report is the weight lent to aspects of the real economy which are overlooked by the overwhelming concentration on the monetary criteria.
In steering Europe's economies towards convergence I allude in particular to Article 109j(1) of the Treaty, where other economic indicators are stipulated which should be then taken into account in assessing the convergence criteria.
EMU will only succeed if it provides a decent life for our citizens and that is the ultimate goal to which the Harrison report aspires.
Mr President-in-Office, may I appeal to you directly to take into consideration the views of a large majority of the elected representatives in this House in the final decision of the Council of Ministers?
Mr President, I am grateful that I can speak on these, important issues for the citizens of Europe this afternoon.
The citizens of Europe need to know that their interests are protected when one of the most fundamental changes in their ordinary lives comes about, as I believe it will, sometime over the next five years.
I believe that it is necessary for the citizen to be able to make an easy point of reference to the currency and the values which have become familiar over a lifetime throughout the period of transition when the new currency is being introduced and for a period beyond the point of introduction.
We know how difficult it was to make that adjustment, particularly for the old and less well-informed, and that is why we support the proposal of the amendments for the introduction of a dual pricing system which are now to be carried, I hope, in this report.
First of all the political importance and international role of the European Union in implementing economic and financial policy in an international context is strengthened.
Thirdly the euro will facilitate multilateral dialogue with a view to more effective coordination of the economic policy of the most important trading blocs.
The position of the Union will thereby grow within the financial and economic international organisations as will the need for defining the Union's participation in these organisations.
The euro therefore puts the Union in a position of being able to play a role in the monetary field which is more in line with its weight in the economic and trade field.
The deliberations of Parliament at this part-session will mark another stage in the preparations for economic and monetary union.
You will also be considering your opinion under Article 109j of the Treaty on European Union.
In the latter case you already have before you Ecofin's recommendation to the European Council under this article.
It will come as no surprise that Ecofin, on 11 November, on the basis of the reports of the Commission and the European Monetary Institute and the recommendation of the Commission, adopted a recommendation to the European Council to decide the following: firstly, that a majority of Member States do not fulfil the necessary conditions for the adoption of the single currency; secondly, that the Community will not, therefore, enter third stage of EMU in 1997; thirdly, that the procedure laid down in Article 109j(4), will be applied as early as possible in 1998.
The Ecofin recommendation of 11 November was sent to Parliament on the very day and Parliament is now formulating its own opinion.
Clearly that opinion is entirely a matter for Parliament itself and as President-in-Office of Ecofin I therefore have nothing more to say about it.
I should, however, take this opportunity to mention that the speed with which Parliament has moved to formulate its opinion, and indeed your willingness to deal promptly with other EMU items before you today is very much appreciated by me as President-in-Office of Ecofin and indeed by all the Members of the Council.
I would now like to give you a brief report on the present state of the work necessary for the launching of EMU on 1 January 1999.
As you know the European Council in Madrid last December marked a decisive step forward in the preparations for EMU by naming the new currency the Euro and by setting-out a comprehensive timetable for the change-over to it.
Briefly, EMU will begin on 1 January 1999 with the irrevocable fixing of the conversion rates of the currencies of the participating Member States and the Euro will become a currency in its own right.
I want to tell you that we have made considerable progress on all three issues.
In Dublin in September I hosted an informal meeting of EU Finance Ministers and central bank governors to review progress and to chart the course to the December Dublin European Council.
The momentum provided by that meeting enabled the Commission last month to adopt legislative proposals on the stability pact and on the legal framework for the Euro as well as a draft communication to Council on the relationship between participating and non-participating Member States.
As regards the latter issue, the report from Ecofin to the Dublin European Council will address the new exchange rate mechanism to be put in place on the formation of EMU.
Ecofin's report to Dublin under this heading will also address the arrangements for enhanced surveillance of economic policies with a view to ensuring that they are conducive to the convergence that is essential to monetary stability.
As regards the second part of Ecofin's work, you will know that the Commission adopted proposals last month for two draft Council regulations on the legal framework of the Euro.
The first draft regulation is based on Article 235 of the Treaty and contains the items which are required to be adopted as a matter of urgency.
The second is based on Article 109l(4) of the Treaty and contains the other provisions necessary for the legal framework.
A Council Working Group has been examining the two proposals and on 11 November Ecofin noted that substantial progress had been made, particularly on the Article 235 proposal.
The third issue before Ecofin concerns securing budget discipline in stage 3 of EMU, in other words the stability pact.
The Commission has also submitted two proposals for Council regulations in this area.
The first deals with the clarification of the excessive deficit procedure under Article 104c and covers the issue of sanctions.
The second proposal deals with the strengthening of the surveillance and coordination of budgetary positions under Article 103(5) of the Treaty.
The tabling of these two proposals by the Commission indicates that progress has been made towards formulating a stability pact.
For example, we have agreed that Member States in EMU will be obliged to submit stability programmes, demonstrating a commitment to orderly management of their public finances and to keeping their deficits below the Treaty reference value of 3 % of GDP over the course of a normal economic cycle.
Ecofin Ministers had a thorough and fruitful exchange of views at their meeting on 11 November and will be considering the matter again next Monday here in Brussels.
It remains to be seen how far the details of the work on the stability pact can be specified by the end of the Irish presidency though I am hopeful that it would be possible for the Dublin European Council to make further progress on it.
Clearly the pact is primarily aimed at ensuring a stable foundation for the Euro, by ensuring that Member States in the Euro area keep their general government deficits below the Treaty ceiling of 3 % of gross domestic product, across a normal economic cycle.
So much for the progress we have been making on EMU at Ecofin and indeed the prospects for the Dublin European Council in December.
But it is not just at Ecofin, or indeed at the European Parliament, that preparations for EMU are being made.
But that does not make it easy and it is the willingness to undertake the hard tasks which demonstrates Member States' commitment to the EMU process.
At a conference recently in Berlin organized by the Kangaroo Group I offered some of my views in this respect.
Certainly we will be less vulnerable to external economic shocks than we currently are with 14 different currencies at the present time, which is a significant factor.
That in turn will help to provide economic stability across the international global market.
However, I do not believe that enough work has yet been done in studying this particular phenomenon of the international dimension of the Euro and it is something that now we have opportunity to so do, having virtually completed a lot of the work in relation to the details of how the currency system will actually function.
The European single currency project will not work unless it has the support of the people, the citizens of Europe.
Secondly, such a sound hard currency combined with sound fiscal and budgetary management of public finances in all of the Member States and within the Commission will create the space and the opportunity within which people will make investment decisions of their own, set against a background of low inflation and low interest rates.
Therefore I believe that the rules and regulations which we are trying to put in place for the single currency is the best friend for the European citizen and the European citizen will in turn recognize it as such and give it the kind of political support which it must have to be a success.
Mr President, can I first of all of behalf of the whole House thank the President of the Ecofin Council for his presentation today and more importantly, for the way in which he has engaged the European Parliament in dialogue since the Irish took over the presidency of the European Union.
I am sure I can speak on behalf of the whole House when I say how much we have valued his participation, not only in the meetings here in the Chamber, but also in Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and of course the informal meetings we have had over the last few months.
I would also like to thank the rapporteurs who have conducted the work on behalf of Parliament in an excellent fashion.
We have been able to coordinate these reports so that we can have this general debate today on what is an extremely important and indeed a historic issue for the European Union.
We have the privilege today of having this debate on the single currency.
We are debating reports which have been discussed in our various committees in Parliament, we have had the chance to discuss them in our political groups and we are now having a public debate on the floor of this House, as indeed we have had on many occasions in the past.
I hope that the President of the Ecofin Council, when he presides over the Finance Ministers on Monday, encourages all his colleagues, to engage in a similar debate in their own national parliaments because that is the way we can defeat the Euroscepticism in Europe that exists at the moment on the single currency, by having public debates in our own parliaments, our national parliaments, and ensuring that these issues are fully aired.
I hope that this House will join with me in condemning any government that prevents the national parliament having a debate on what is of course an absolutely crucial issue for the citizens of the European Union.
On 16 October the European Commission agreed on the proposal for a stability pact to ensure budgetary discipline during the third phase of EMU.
What was expected to be a fiscal straight-jacket, fully inspired by irrational fears of fiscal irresponsibility rather than rational economic thinking, turned into a more reasonable, albeit still partly unsatisfactory instrument, to respond to a legitimate need for budgetary discipline amongst Member States in a forthcoming monetary union.
I hope that if this Parliament votes to have a much more general definition tomorrow, combined with the views of the European Commission, then the Ecofin Council will ensure that it does not have a prescriptive definition when it comes to some of these issues associated with the stability pact.
We have to realise that if you have a Member State that suffers from a fall in its real GDP of 1 % in a given year, going inevitably hand-in-hand with increasing unemployment, raising unemployment benefit expenditure and falling tax revenues, in such a difficult situation any country would witness a rapidly deteriorating budget deficit of several percentage points likely to push it over the 3 % deficit ceiling, thus making it excessive.
Even in such a difficult case, if the country's first priority was to fight a rising deficit, what would then happen is that it would be unable to take the steps to deal with the unemployment problem and the problem of the decline in its economy.
We cannot put economies in the European Union in that position and I do not believe that national parliaments will accept it.
You could end up, if you accept the Waigel proposal with a large European recession, and in all probability with the larger Member States affected first.
What I want to say to the President-in-Office of the Ecofin Council is yes, have a stability pact but have a stability pact that takes account of economic growth.
We want to make sure that Member States do not undermine the single currency when it is created, but be realistic about this.
Do not create a mechanism that is unnecessary and which in the future could push Europe into a deep recession.
It has also succeeded in complying with the timetable, which is no mean feat, as we know.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to give you my reactions to the ideas of a former high official of the French State, because they are directly associated with our debate.
If we wanted to reduce the value of the franc, nothing could be easier.
It is going to have to work towards that objective but also it is going to have to create conditions such as to favour strong, sustained growth and a high level of employment, as stipulated in the Treaty on European Union.
Regarding the transition to the single currency, my main concern is that the Commission should be able to make every necessary and possible effort to ensure that those Member States which are unable to embark on Stage 3 from the outset can continue their efforts to achieve convergence.
In other words, we must ensure that those States which are now approaching convergence are put in a position where they can undertake a change of direction so that the criteria can be complied with and so that Europe can reckon on the largest possible number of Member States - even if not fifteen - from the moment of introduction of the single currency.
This, in fact, will be the first great tangible sign which will enable all Europe's citizens to see whether and in what form Europe exists.
Mr President, I wish to speak on the stability pact on behalf of the ELDR Group.
Firstly, let me say that in spite of the hurried nature of this debate, I welcome the fact that it is taking place.
In this most sensitive and critically important area of Member State budgetary policy and Stage 3 of monetary union it is important, we believe, that it be placed firmly and belong institutionally at the heart of the first pillar.
I congratulate the Commission on behalf of the Liberal Group for claiming ownership on behalf of all the Union of the stability pact concept and I believe that their proposal exhibits a careful and appropriate balance.
My Group supports the proposal and will vote against most of the amendments proposed, especially against those amendments that in our opinion send the wrong political signal by watering down the deficit criteria essential to a credible currency.
Dublin II is fast approaching, to be preceded as we have heard by an Ecofin Council next Monday in Brussels.
Mr President, today's debate is a further indication of the haste with which the European Union is moving ahead on all of the issues pertaining to admission to the third stage of economic and monetary union.
The reports speak of the need for implementation of EMU, but nowhere does one find any mention of the millions of jobs that will be lost, of the disintegration that will be caused in the countries with diverging economies, of the collapse of labour relations, of the casting-aside of the social model that has been a feature of Europe in the recent decades as a result of the struggles engaged in by the labour movement.
We have been talking today about the legislative requirements for the independence of the national central banks, the institutional imbalance of the European central banks, public acceptance and the third stage of economic and monetary union.
Now my Group and my party in Scotland is in favour of EMU.
We consider it absurd to have a single market without the accompanying single currency.
He wants to see a single currency working to create employment, and Europe must concentrate its efforts on meeting this objective.
The euro must be regarded as the engine driving economic and social progress.
It will help to consolidate peace in our continent and among our peoples, of course any government moving in the right direction should be able to join, and we must watch that we do not overvalue the euro and so destroy a lot of our aims.
He is confident that at the third stage we will start with a sufficient number of Member States.
Mr Harrison I thought made his paper very clear and come to life when he emphasized the need for a policy mix between centralized monetary policy and decentralized economic and employment policies.
Mr Harrison explained his report very clearly.
Mr President, today's monetary debate once again emphasizes that this European Parliament not only insists upon the democratic accountability of monetary institutions and authorities but itself genuinely endeavours to adopt a position which furthers the implementation of monetary union.
The continuity of the Treaties is a very important signal for us.
It really would be a good thing if these regulations - rather than just a subsequent regulation - were to make it completely clear that the transaction costs that monetary union is going to do away with are not suddenly going to crop up again in the form of conversion costs in the reality of the single European market - the reality of European monetary union.
There would also be a problem if the Maastricht Treaty were to be amended, and in my view that would not happen at all without the ratification procedure.
So I should be very glad if the Council and Commission felt able to adopt the ideas in the European Parliament's proposal regarding the stability pact.
Mr President, Monetary Union, which is to come into being on 1 January 1999, is a decisive and irreversible step on the road to European integration.
The Council is shortly to make a pronouncement on three aspects, which are still to be defined, which are fundamental elements of the credibility, security and stability of future Monetary Union.
I refer to the stability pact, to the definition of the future European Monetary System between the euro and the currencies of those Member States not participating in monetary union and the legal scope of the euro.
Council regulations relating to the introduction of the euro have a single objective: to give legal security to operators in their financial and commercial operations throughout the process of introducing the euro and the progressive disappearance of national currencies both before and after 1 January 1999.
In this sense, we feel the approach is the right one.
The changeover to the euro must not make anyone uncertain about continued purchasing power and everyone must be capable of understanding the need to offer and conduct transactions expressed both in euros and in their national currency for a certain period.
Commissioner, this endeavour will not end with the approval of these regulations but must commence from their approval, with cooperation and commitment from all Member States.
Be that as it may, the revised and more realistic version of the report calls for no particular comment, and our group should be able to vote in favour of it.
It is still true, incidentally, that a very restrictive interpretation of the convergence criteria would keep a number of Member States outside monetary union, resulting, at the worst, in a major split in the single market, and might encourage a sudden sharp rise in the value of the euro, whereas a more balanced interpretation would reduce the risk of a split in the single market, thus reducing the grave danger that an overvalued euro would represent.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess to being somewhat disconcerted on reading these reports.
When I see the extent to which they disregard the real processes taking place in the various countries, and in Europe as a whole, it is as if the intention were to create a fog of abstract relationships between abstract economies, a fog in which the reality of people's lives, their real situation, has disappeared.
Thus, monetarism celebrates its triumph in a situation which sees the disappearance not only of social considerations but even of relationships between currencies and growth or stagnation, industrial development policies, even economic trends.
Now some slight degree of flexibility is conceded as a way of rapidly achieving the objective of the single currency, since it is absolutely obvious that that objective cannot be achieved without a critical mass of European States: a mere two or three would not be sufficient to achieve it.
However, I should like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, the Director of Eurostat has said in Parliament that there are many grey areas in the Member States with regard to efforts to reduce budget deficits and that all should be clarified before 1998 so that equal treatment of all countries can be ensured.
The national budget policy of the Member States is currently aimed at fulfilling the convergence criteria.
Amendment No 15 to part II of the Christodoulou report is very strange.
Our Oosterschelde dam costs eight billion guilders.
Other European countries have other kinds of problems.
This kind of discussion illustrates how unsuitable a monetary union is for the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs on these monetary reports.
There are 20 million unemployed across the European Union.
We want improvements in the single market and, as has been said before on many occasions, with something like 20 million small and medium-sized enterprises across Europe and 20 million people unemployed it does not need a mathematician to realize that if every company took on one extra member of staff, unemployment would be slashed right across Europe.
Thirdly, it requires a stable currency which can go anywhere in the world.
The UK has problems, mainly political and not economic, which I am sure will be sorted out with a change of government and we will then see the UK ready to move to stage 3 under a socialist government.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are a few further thoughts I should like to contribute to this extremely important debate, thoughts prompted by the fact that the globalization of financial markets is meaning that economic convergence between the Member States is indispensable even if only to guarantee a balanced growth of their financial markets without drastic consequences for the real economy.
Hence, even without the forthcoming single currency, respect for convergence criteria and some kind of stability pact would be necessary in any case in order not to expose the European economic system and its market - which are more and more closely associated - to the dangers of a shock effect which would have all kinds of serious consequences.
As far as income is concerned, the European Parliament has already on previous occasions - for example, recently, in connection with the single market - not only shared the Commission's concerns regarding the adverse effects of the discrepancies between the Member States and the fiscal competition existing in many sectors but also expressed the opinion that the future of European economic policy will be dominated by a serious imbalance between a common monetary policy, budgetary policies strictly coordinated by the stability pact and diverse, uncoordinated taxation policies.
The need, therefore, is for an approach which is much better coordinated between the Member States, an approach which must of course come into being by stages, and in my view the same requirement also exists for the macro sector of public spending.
In conclusion, we would point out the need to proceed with clear-headedness, both as regards the problems of coordinating tax revenues and as regards the need to compare different forms of coordination, although the subject is a very difficult one as regards the make-up of public spending.
Mr President, a single currency should result in lower interest rates in many parts of the European Union.
The Irish pound, as one of the smaller currencies in the Union, has sometimes been subject to external pressures which in turn resulted in very high interest rates.
One of the biggest costs confronting small and medium-sized business, where the bulk of today's jobs are to be found, is the cost of servicing the capital which is being borrowed to fund such things as product development or property and equipment purchases.
A single currency should encourage lower interest and mortgage rates and in the process allow small and mediumsized businesses to operate in a more stable environment and also reduce the pressure on home owners to service their mortgages.
Despite an unfavourable economic climate, the European Union has made significant progress towards monetary convergence in 1996.
If progress continues at the same pace, virtually all those Member States who wish to do so will be able to join Stage Three of European monetary union on 1 January 1999.
Mr President, this set of reports by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is highly significant and reveals the times we are living in, in terms of concepts and approaches.
It is also interesting that, with the real economy forgotten, these reports reflect the very contemporary concern for flexibility, without spelling it out, something which for years and years was presented as intransigent inflexibility leaving absolutely no room to manoeuvre from a single transnational strategy and single monetary and budget policies.
The second set of protagonists in this business are the big multinationals, always anxious to nibble away at the existence of independent States that might oppose their decision-taking methods.
Finally, the United States are involved in the same process, because they would rather exercise control over a single European contact than several different national ones.
The lessons of history tell us that it is better to have a currency which is used only in a limited territorial area but is adapted to the economy of that area - as is the case with the Swiss franc, for example - rather than a currency which is valid throughout a continent and is more or less soundly managed.
The lessons of history tell us, too, that newly independent countries immediately create their own currency - which is surely not a matter of chance - and often do so successfully, as in the case of Czechoslovakia, or rather the Czech Republic, or Slovenia or Estonia.
The Hoppenstedt report rightly says that the introduction of the euro cannot go ahead against the will of the citizens, which in our view means that it can only be introduced if popular referenda give the go-ahead to the national governments.
In any case, the process of economic growth is, by definition, a process of evolving differentiation - of divergence.
The policy of convergence pursued with a view to monetary union runs counter to this natural reality.
Life always means divergence.
Since 1945, growth in Europe, when it was strong, was always based on a variety of currencies.
So there is no relationship between economic growth and monetary union.
Our second principle, then, is to give priority to growth rather than to European monetary unification.
It follows that the present process of monetary union is antidemocratic, antisocial and antinational.
Unfortunately, in these areas, in both of them, unemployment and regional inequality, the situation is far from good.
No one on this side of the House is in favour of inflation, which hits working people first and hardest of all.
It is particularly worrying that the Commission, instead of contemplating a new policy, seems to be thinking in terms of making these measures even more stringent, if that is possible, via the stability pact which the Christodoulou report deals with specifically.
It has got to be taken on board, Mr President, that in making the 3 % deficit over the reference value an absolute maximum the stability pact effectively revises Article 1 of Protocol 5 and establishes a new reference value of around 1.5 %.
But in the real world in which we live, the evolving dynamic world, anyone who maintains that the deficits can be reduced to zero without unemployment being fuelled is being dangerously irresponsible.
A deficit of close to 3 % comes under the criteria of the Treaty and should not therefore create any problems.
And then the stability pact also clearly stipulates a maximum of 3 % deficit unless under exceptional and temporary circumstances.
The big question is of course what message Parliament wants to send out with this document.
Mr President, at the outset I wish to congratulate the rapporteurs and say that they have made an excellent contribution to the single currency debate.
Early in 1998 the Council will decide which Member States will qualify for EMU based on the updated economic statistics for 1997.
It is clear that Ireland will be in a position to join the first tier of European countries which will participate in the new European single currency.
This is due to the fact that our debt/GNP ratio is decreasing annually and that our economy has been growing at a steady rate since 1987 with the assistance of two European structural fund programmes.
The Irish Government should commit itself to acceding to a single currency whether Britain joins or not.
Since 1960 there has been a major change in the pattern of Irish trade.
Aligning ourselves to the Euro will mean that participation in such a strong and stable monetary union will result in a reduction in interest rates in the medium term.
In conclusion, I am somewhat disappointed that the Irish Minister only stays to listen to the rapporteur's reports and the contributions by the main spokespersons.
At the heart of these public finances where this monetarist train is taking us, at the heart of these budgetary policies, the question which arises is this: can there still be any such thing as multiple budgetary policies, in view of the facts?
Hence the novelty of a budgetary criminal law, with one improvement, that is to say the stability pact, the two proposals for a Commission Regulation, and fines.
The single currency implies a single tax system, otherwise monetary devaluations will give way to tax devaluations.
The European Council in Madrid recognized the need for legal security to form part of the introduction of the single currency.
I am not sure, Commissioner, that legal security is sufficiently catered for by changing the name of the single currency, by the instrument of a regulation based on Article 235 and the technique of interpreting the Treaty.
You believe that the political risk of revising the Treaty is greater than the legal risk of the further procedures.
But let us have no talk of legal security when what lies in wait for us is a storm of appeals whose results we cannot predict.
Well, the legal problems are considerable.
These problems are complex, important and fundamental: because of the legal instruments of implementation, first pillar, third pillar, because of the difficult division of legal jurisdiction and political responsibility between the Community and the Member States.
Yet there is no semblance of any answer to these questions in the texts we are considering.
What we expect from you today is not solutions but a commitment to particular methods, and a timetable.
The legal security of the market operators is necessary, certainly, but we have no right to disregard the confidence of the ordinary citizens of the Union.
This is the result of a successful attempt in recent years to bring inflation down from 13.4 % in 1990 - and it had been up to 24.7 % in 1985 - to 2.6 % in 1996, to bring the interest rate differential with the EU average down from 7 percentage points to less than 3, to bring the budget deficit down to 4 %, while public debt, albeit still more than 60 %, should fall further in 1996/.
Although the unemployment rate did go up in 1994, it has been kept to just over 7 %, far below the EU average.
Representing more than 80 % of Portuguese workers in the wake of the recent elections where the process was at the heart of the political campaigns, it could be said that we can count on the strong backing of our people.
A single currency, however, would continue to call for greater real approximation between economies.
Mr President, this afternoon we have debated monetary union, primarily in technical and legal terms.
The common currency is basically a political project.
The convergence criteria are being met by Member States making drastic cuts in social provisions and by unnecessary privatisation.
The price for this dogmatic EMU policy is being paid today by the unemployed and by those affected by social cuts.
If monetary union goes ahead it will mean the creation of a system beyond democratic control, where economic policy is decided on the basis of Treaty provisions, the stability pact and an independent central bank.
While noting an impressive level of nominal convergence, we should emphasize that, in point of fact, there are at least ten states which are not able to satisfy all the convergence criteria, criteria that are essential for launching the second stage of economic and monetary union.
Not only that, but an excessively strict interpretation would result in a split in the single market and would increase the possibility of a rise in the value of the euro, while a more balanced interpretation would reduce the problem of a division within the single market and would lessen the risk of an overvalued euro.
There is also the fact that even Germany, which sees the problem of the single currency as the manifestation of Europe, is not able to meet the convergence criteria: in particular, during 1996, the ratio between gross domestic product and the budget deficit has been about 3.5-4 %.
Let us not forget that unemployment, which has never before reached its present level of around 12 %, must not be further increased by raising the tax burden on manufacturing industry in the Member States, especially in Italy.
Mr President, I want to use my three minutes on the completion of EMU and the introduction of the euro to say that I agree with the objective, that I am anxious about the methods being used, and that I have doubts regarding the results unless the economic and monetary union that is now coming into being is rapidly complemented by political and social union.
That is the indispensable complement of an economic Europe, the single market and freedom of movement.
An excessively strict interpretation of the convergence criteria and the lack of any political and social approach to that convergence are already proving to have two disadvantages.
Not only that, but these criteria threaten to exclude too many countries, especially all the southern States of our Union.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a long way off as yet.
To summarize, and in conclusion, in order to achieve the widely shared objective of the euro we therefore need a more flexible approach to the convergence criteria, we need to avoid adding new criteria, we need to fight against unemployment and poverty and in favour of the public services, and above all we need to lay the foundations of a strong political Europe with bold, proactive social policies.
In the short time I have available, I wish to refer to the Metten report and, in particular, to the suggested treatment of what is, in my view, one of the most important convergence criteria: the inflation criterion.
This criterion is not strictly accountable in the way interest rates might be.
Inflation is a weighted mean, in accordance with the size of each land .
It was precisely Commissioner de Silguy's reply, in which he suggested that this convergence criterion could possibly be calculated as a strictly arithmetic mean of the three best countries with the lowest inflation rate, which led me, together with a number of colleagues, to table an amendment on that subject, because the inflation criterion is an eminently statistical criterion and is not accountable.
We do not wish to relax the convergence criteria.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking part in a part-session in which matters of great importance for European citizens and Europe as a whole are being debated.
With or without Maastricht, it is vital to cut deficits, inflation and interest rates.
It was not in order to achieve these criteria that the evils we are now complaining about - low growth and high unemployment - came about.
The reports that we are jointly debating are fundamental in terms of introducing the euro, dealt with with openness, political common sense and technical skill, that will make them far more acceptable and comprehensible for the citizens of the European Union that we are creating.
Given the fact that, in such a short time, it is impossible to deal with all these matters, I should like to touch upon some vital aspects: participation by national parliaments and their involvement in and co-responsibility for stability programmes, the multilateral supervision to be carried out.
It is also vital for us that we add to the proposal to the Commission a new article on the Cohesion Fund clearly stipulating that it will be kept in operation during the third phase of EMU as the differences of development justifying its creation are still relevant, and that the amount of money in the fund and the application conditions be set by a Council regulation.
This will increase unemployment but not because of some kind of Phillips link between inflation and unemployment but simply because zero inflation will force certain businesses to make direct wage cuts in order to bring relative wages into line with supply and demand.
Mr President, we are currently debating a number of reports connected with Economic and Monetary Union which reveal the significance this House attaches to this fundamental fact of passage to a single currency.
Firstly I would like to congratulate the various rapporteurs and then concentrate on a number of matters arising from the stability pact.
A situation in which, every year, over 5 %, and in some cases even 10 % or more, of the GDP goes to paying off debt interest is an untenable one.
Secondly, and I refer here to the stability pact which is already contained in the Treaty on Union, account has to be taken of the fact that it is less important to achieve on time the target of a government deficit that does not exceed 3 % GDP than it is to demonstrate the political will and capability to maintain such a position of equilibrium - or of not excessive disequilibrium - in a sustained and durable manner.
The second point is linked to stability requirements and government investment given that, in many countries, attempts are being made to achieve the 3 % limit by placing excessively strict controls on government investment, and, clearly, such a practice cannot continue for very long without compromising the future of our economies.
Finally, I would like to refer to the Cohesion Fund which, as you will be aware, is currently available to four Member States.
This Fund was set up during the current convergence stage as an instrument to counteract any negative effects the Union's weaker economies might experience, in government investment terms, on account of convergence efforts.
As a representative from one of those States, and on the basis of the notion of solidarity so often invoked in this House, I thought it my duty to emphasize this point which has genuinely been incorporated into the amendments approved in the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee and which I hope will be approved during tomorrow's sitting.
The introduction of the euro and the associated flanking measures are a logical step in the realization of the internal market, enabling it to generate positive effects such as increasing economic output, employment and social stability and to strengthen the dynamism of the European Union as such.
Europe's citizens will assess the euro and the European Union - and us, in this House - in terms of such yardsticks as the level of unemployment and social stability.
But if the European Union and the European Parliament want to appear credible and not to drive frustrated citizens, living in fear for their jobs, into the arms of glib populists, the beneficial effects of the introduction of the euro must be felt not only by industry but also, and especially, by the workers of social Europe.
We shall see, too, whether the Liberals sacrifice their principles to the absolute primacy of monetary stability, without regard to employment and the social repercussions.
To ensure a positive dynamic, the maximum possible number of states must be involved from the outset in the third stage of economic and monetary union.
Mr President, I too should like to begin by congratulating the draftsmen of the reports on the need to achieve EMU in the conditions provided for in the Maastricht Treaty and in keeping with the set timetables, in order to conduct a policy combining support for the real economy, so as to increase confidence among economic operators, and the kind of investment likeliest to generate large numbers of jobs and high growth.
In preparing the third stage of EMU, some care must be taken, in particular in respect of structural transformations in the financial markets and capital generated by deregulation, information technologies and greater economic interdependence.
We must also bear in mind the process of 'disintermediation' , according to which the supply and demand of capital operate reciprocally and without need for financial intermediaries, and the institutional agreement needed to allow for coordination between policies, strengthening the independence of the European Central bank, by means of democratic legitimacy, which I see as a linchpin, and the need to appoint the members of the Economic and Financial Committee in terms of greater responsibility, in keeping as it happens with the proposal made by the rapporteurs.
The single currency is a decisive goal, a vital goal in the process of European construction.
But it would be foolish if we were satisfied with reducing Europe to a question of economic and financial construction alone.
Nobody in Europe today would understand that those who are and were able to define objectives and binding policies in monetary, budgetary and exchange rate terms were able to show such contempt for the people of Europe by not also defining binding objectives in terms of social policy or employment.
I can assure you, Mr Christodoulou, that we shall take due account of it, in what you called the spirit of positive cooperation.
With two weeks to go before the European Council in Dublin, this debate on the present status of economic and monetary union gives us an opportunity to take stock of the advances achieved in the course of this year.
In December 1995, thanks to your support, the pattern for the introduction of the single European currency and its name, together with the work programme for the year 1996, were ratified by the European Council in Madrid.
Unfortunately, and to my regret, I have no time to consider the five reports and all your suggestions in detail.
Before I say anything about the Commission's autumn forecasts for 1997, I should like to dwell for a moment on this year's progress towards convergence.
The Commission's reports, and that of the EMI, bear witness to the fact that the various elements of lasting convergence in Europe are becoming stronger and stronger.
So the results as regards inflation and as regards interest rates are excellent.
As far as foreign exchange stability is concerned, there have since Sunday been twelve Member States participating in the EMS exchange mechanism.
Only three - France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands - will have indebtedness of below 60 %.
Thus, and I must stress this point, the European Council in Dublin will find that a sufficiently high degree of convergence has not been achieved by a majority of States.
The procedure laid down in Article 109j(2) will therefore have to be repeated as early as possible in 1998.
The European Council will then be in a position to take its decision as a function of the high degree of sustainable convergence that has been achieved.
However, the Commission's forecasts of November 1996 highlight a revival of growth and an improvement - admittedly hesitant, as yet - in the employment situation.
The growth forecasts are 1.6 % in 1996, 2.3 % in 1997 and 2.8 % in 1998.
A study of the components of demand shows that growth in 1997 and 1998 should be balanced.
Exports will play a dynamic part and manufacturing investment, which is expected to grow by 5 % in 1997 and by nearly 7 % in 1998, should once again become the driving force behind growth.
The changing employment situation between 1996 and 1998 will see the net creation of 2.3 million jobs over three years.
The euro is conceivable only in the context of a dynamic which creates a framework of stable, sustained growth which will create jobs.
I must stress the fact that compliance with the convergence criteria, allowing access to the euro, will be verified as early as possible in 1998 on the basis of the final 1997 figures, and also in the light of the past and future performance of the Member States with regard to the various aspects of convergence.
I am grateful to Parliament for this debate, which enables us - for the first time, I believe - to clarify those words a little.
For the purposes of assessing the degree of convergence, the Treaty provides five criteria.
Compliance with a particular reference value is not in itself a sufficient condition for selection.
The sustainability of budgetary stability is, indeed, the objective of the stability pact, which, together with the legal status of the euro and the new EMS, make up the three major preparatory tasks necessary for the introduction of the euro.
There is increasing support, in Europe and elsewhere, for the view that sustained growth is possible only with healthy public finances, allowing interest rates to be reduced permanently.
It is the economic framework essential for the creation of jobs in tomorrow's Europe.
Don't worry, Mr Cox, the Commission will stick to its guns on this point.
And, if it is to bring about all these beneficial results, it is essential that this objective should be respected in the long term.
And I can assure you that the European Parliament will be kept informed about them, because they will be made public.
Finally, the stability pact must also have a deterrent effect.
For the benefit of any doubters, let me remind you that a budgetary deficit puts a country - France, let us say - in the situation of a household which is earning 13, 000 francs a month and spending 15, 500 - spending, in other words, 20 % more than it brings in.
I would say that the Regulation allows sufficient flexibility to make allowance for the variety of national parliamentary procedures and hence for the concern of the national parliaments, Mr Christodoulou.
I would describe it as balanced and sufficiently flexible.
This is a very valuable contribution to the current discussions in preparation for the European Council in Dublin.
It is also fully aware of the need to draw up rapidly, as you suggest, its proposal aimed at improving multilateral monitoring for the pre-in States.
But I must add that it considers it inappropriate to extend the scope of application of this proposal by integrating into it policies or instruments other than those which are the object of the stability pact.
Thus, in the case of the Regulation based on Article 103(5), the Commission can accept Amendment No 21, together with Amendments Nos 1 and 18, and compromise Amendment No 2, subject to certain editorial corrections.
The Commission, like this House - and I should thank the rapporteur for his quick work - has put in a great deal of work on this, in a very short time, I may add.
The draft before you is the draft of the new monetary law for Europe - the monetary law of the year 2000.
Since much has been said about the name of the currency, I should make it clear that the name euro is a specific version of the generic term ECU.
The fact of clarifying what, in many languages, was no more than an acronym, an abbreviation, is not an amendment to the Treaty, and our legal experts are unanimous on that point.
I shall not go into details of the two draft Regulations.
I don't want to dwell on this, because I think we are quite clear about their content, both as regards the fact that the Union will have only a single currency from 1 January 1999 and as regards the fact that these texts are designed to ensure the continuity of contracts and obligations.
The natural legal basis for this kind of monetary constitution is Article 109l(4).
Thanks to these two Regulations, no court in the world - in New York, even in Singapore - will be unaware of these rules, which establish the transparency and legal security of the introduction of the euro.
This requirement is essential.
It is the very principle of the 'lex monetae ' .
Don't worry, Mr Areitio Toledo, this is not an end but a beginning.
The requirement of legal security must also benefit all Europe's citizens.
So this security must benefit him, whether it relates to his contracts, his savings, his earnings or his purchasing power.
All these concerns are fundamental, but the only way of responding to them was through this 'lex monetae ' , which is the monetary constitution of Europe, and whose sole purpose is to give maximum legal force to the basic principles: definition of the currency and security of obligations.
The Commission, then, is in no position to broaden the scope of application of its proposal.
I am thinking here of Amendment No 3, together with slightly changed versions of Amendments Nos 1 and 2 and the amendments to the Regulation based on Article 235.
As regards the Regulation based on Article 109l(4), the Commission can accept Amendment No 4 together with Amendments Nos 2, 16 and 18, subject to certain editorial corrections.
Mr Hoppenstedt said just now that Dublin would be the acid test.
Mr De Clercq, you and various others refer to the external aspects of the euro.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have shown in the last two years that our method of close collaboration between Commission and Parliament has borne fruit.
Mr President, to a large extent I am satisfied with what Commissioner de Silguy said but there is one thing that worries me.
Just after the Commission presented its autumn forecasts which indicate that countries such as Spain and Portugal might well fulfil the criteria.
Having said that, I would like to make two comments about the amendments you have received.
I know that will not change your point of view, but it is important to this House, because the Community has a legal personality and the Union has not.
Amendment No 17 also contains an error.
I feel that many of them would very greatly facilitate the implementation and the functioning of these two regulations which all of us here regard as essential.
There are five criteria in the Treaty, bearing in mind that the public finance criterion is a double one.
You cannot rescind an excessive deficit, if the 1997 deficit is less than 3 % and if you know that the predicted deficit for 1998 is greater than 3 %.
Mr Herman, there is no problem here.
Finally, one more point on the amendments.
I can assure Mr Christodoulou, and the other rapporteurs too, Mr President, that following tomorrow's vote on the various reports we shall proceed with a careful examination of all the amendments and - in the positive spirit of cooperation I have already mentioned - we shall see what we can do, but if anything can be done you can rely on my support. (The sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m.
Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report might well have deserved better than this evening meeting at which, of course, there are not many honourable Members here to listen to us.
Well, basically, the European Parliament would like to play a major part in the preparation of the Fifth Framework Programme which will begin when the present framework programme ends, in other words at the beginning of 1999.
Well, our proposals have adopted that idea, and we also hope that these major targeted programmes will raise the profile of research and development as far as public opinion is concerned, and so result in greater public support for research and development efforts at Union level.
So: new organization, new structures and new contents too.
It is fundamental because it is enshrined in the Treaty and because we cannot regard the Treaty as just a scrap of paper, but also because it reflects Europe's powerful ambition to have a strong presence in the major international markets.
Today, though, we believe that, as the European social model changes, it is becoming more and more important for European research and development also to meet a powerful social demand - a demand from society which surely expects us to create a sound industrial structure with industries that function, but also hopes that research will provide answers to the insistent problems that our citizens have to face, problems which do indeed call for additional efforts.
Well, the main message of this report is that today, although we must undoubtedly continue our efforts to improve our industrial potential, we have also got to meet that social demand.
These problems had already been touched upon in the Commission's Green Paper, which was supported by Parliament.
In that context, we would like to see more inventive formulas for mobilizing risk capital in favour of research and development than for association with private capital.
Finally, Commissioner, and my concluding remarks are addressed particularly to you, obviously we would not want this own-initiative report to be just one more document on your table.
This lack of vitality may be the main reason for the problems facing Europe today.
So we must also set measures in train to create easier access to risk capital and new, hybrid forms of financing.
Thirdly, we consider it very important for researchers to be more involved than they had been in the evaluation and further development of research policy.
We are seeing the consolidation of the model of an information society in which economic, industrial and social aspects interact and combine more and more.
In point of fact, Commissioner, what are the real weak points in this European system of ours?
From what has been said, it seems obvious that the first requirement is to adapt the technological research and development model to the social and cultural system.
In the course of the 21st century, European industry will find itself having to confront a competitiveness based on new priorities: education, the quality of life, sustainable development.
We need to take action now to create the conditions in which a new research and development model can meet those needs.
We have to increase the amount of investment capital and create new forms of financing through better mobilization of private and public capital and the cutting out of red tape.
With this in mind, we need to try to find new organizational forms for Community cooperation projects to prevent their becoming literally a closed circle, thus encouraging the creation of new forms of collaboration and endeavouring to rethink those which already exist.
We must allow much greater flexibility and the possibility of action to correct the programmes in real time, as they progress, and prevent resources from being irrevocably assigned to technological initiatives which may subsequently prove to be dead ends.
We cannot confine ourselves to proposing new, specific research programmes - we must establish a new approach, concentrating on priority themes, which means, to some extent, a fundamental change in the conception of community research.
With this in mind - and we are addressing the Commissioner here - our research committee has declared its support in principle for this new task-force approach which may thus improve Community research results.
SMUs still provide the biggest number of jobs and therefore deserve an important place in our European research and technology policy.
But such a policy can only be effective if at the same time investments are made in cars at the national and regional level.
Take for example Philips CDI and HDTV.
We know that the people of the EU believe the environment to be important and that more research is needed in this field.
That is why it is important that we also mention in our conclusions the social and environmental needs for research.
Amendments Nos 5 and 6 relate to another important aspect, namely the research carried out by the EU and how it can affect or be used in such areas as the military, which infringes the spirit of the rules we have made.
In order to avoid negative consequences, we must take a transnational approach to the areas included in the fourth programme, such as information and communication technologies, marine science and technology, and renewable or less-polluting energy resources.
Thirdly, by guaranteeing that small firms take part through support for innovation in terms of products, processes and services offered.
The development of those countries relies on the internationalisation of their research centres and technology transfers.
The rapporteur proposes knowledge-sharing technologies and targeted projects organized in matrix form.
I believe that this structure, inheriting the task-force concept, is a valid one, but what will determine the success of this approach will be the political debate on the subjects and criteria of the choices, the debate we are having now.
To help us see the importance of these criteria, I should like to point out that the European Union has an annual maximum of about 3, 000 million ECU available, whereas the aggregate expenditure on research in Europe, within the Member States, amounts to about ECU 120, 000 million: 50, 000 in the public sector and 70, 000 by industry.
I should also like to offer my warmest thanks to all the members of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy who have participated in this work.
This is the first time in the history of the framework programme that the European Parliament has taken the initiative and expressed an opinion before any formal proposal has been presented by the Commission.
My comments on your report will, with your approval, focus on three points.
First, I shall emphasize the areas of agreement between the views expressed in the report and the Commission's proposals.
The extent to which the own-initiative report and the motion for a resolution agree with the views put forward by the Commission is apparent both in the general approach and in a number of specific points.
In actual fact, the possibility of specifically implementing a number of new ideas will depend on the extent to which the Intergovernmental Conference is going to make it possible to simplify the decision procedures in research matters.
The intended objective is for the Council to achieve a common position under the Luxembourg presidency in November 1997 and for the new framework programme to be formally adopted in January 1998.
I must emphasize that compliance with this timetable is essential if we are to avoid any break in the continuity of the European research effort.
The preparation of the Fifth Framework Programme will occupy us intensively throughout 1997.
But before we become fully involved in discussing it, we have to settle the question - which has been outstanding for several months now - of the financial complement to the Fourth Framework Programme.
The financial complement introduces a new approach to this point, and we must achieve a consensus on this before going any further.
As I am sure you know, bearing in mind the decision by the Ecofin Council not to revise the financial perspectives for 1997 and 1998, the sum proposed by the Commission has been revised downward.
The informal trialogue which has just taken place this afternoon has confirmed the intention of the three institutions to go ahead.
In the context of the preparations for economic and monetary union there is heavy pressure on national budgets, as many of you have emphasized.
The Commission is prepared to engage in the debate.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
We were in fact ahead of our time.
Despite that I should like on behalf of the whole House to congratulate Commissioner Kinnock on the fact that he understood the signal from Parliament and society and in the Green Paper is now following up a better management of traffic.
When we look at the list of legal instruments appended to the Green Paper then the instruments to regulate public transport in the Union are already considerable.
The main proposals in the Green Paper are on accessibility, communication, safety, travel comfort and environment.
In each of these categories Parliament has made a number of additions, along with the proposed push and pull measures and the best practices proposals.
We in this House believe that accessibility can be improved not only by adaptations in infrastructure, for example by planning separate provisions for various transport modalities, but also by improving town planning.
It is often the fault of differences in traffic legislation in the various Member States.
Having said that, one of the key elements in establishing an internal market is the removal of the artificial barriers to a single market in the transport sector.
The two proposals which I have the honour of presenting to Parliament this evening represent a further step in the development of a single transport market in the European Union.
They will give bus companies from one EU country greater freedom to offer services to passengers in other Member States.
The best example I know is a bus company which operates a service from a part of the west of Ireland which I represent to London and is allowed to pick up passengers within Ireland but is forbidden to take on any new passengers in any of the major cities or towns in north or south Wales or in the north or south-west of England.
Firstly, it would allow international bus companies to compete directly with national bus companies on long-haul routes, thereby offering a greater range of services to passengers.
The proposals before Parliament today will ensure that long-distance bus operations will also be freer to respond to the demands of the market-place and one of the results will be greater pressure on airlines and rail companies to lower their fares on competing routes.
For many years transport costs between peripheral regions and major urban centres of the Union, for example the one I cited between the west of Ireland and London, were artificially high because of the price cartels operated by the airlines and also by the train and ferry companies.
It is worth recalling that in the days of price fixing by, for example Aer Lingus and British Airways, air fares between London and Irish airports were amongst the highest in all Europe.
Transport costs are also a key factor in the tourism sector which is something we tend to forget.
The proposals before Parliament today will help to reduce overland transport costs and will help to facilitate growth in tourism, particularly amongst younger people who are often not in a position to pay for air travel.
I welcome the proposals put forward by the Commission, which will help in developing the single transport market within the Union.
The Transport Committee has taken a very positive view of the value of these proposals and as rapporteur, I can assure you, Commissioner, that is the truth.
In conclusion may I also say that my own view, and that of the Transport Committee, is that Parliament should support the proposals put forward by the Commission which should also include the amendments adopted in the Transport Committee.
In report A4-0292/96 we have withdrawn Amendments Nos 29 and 30 leaving, with the exception of the committee's amendments, only two amendments by the Liberal Group.
It is important that these two reports and the conclusions from the Commission are before the Council for their final conclusions on 12 December.
We should make every effort to have a common position adopted for that date or at least by the end of this year.
I thank the committee and many of the assistants who helped me to produce these two important reports.
It has taken quite some time and I want to express my appreciation to the staff of the Transport Committee for their wonderful work and support.
In principle, this is a worthwhile activity for the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all of you perhaps future users of short-range public transport!
Mr President, the aim of establishing a public transport network in Europe that is easily accessible and affordable is one deserving of permanent support.
It is only right, and important, that the users of the transport services should be actively involved in these decision processes.
Is it simply a matter of cost-effectiveness that no night taxis run after the last buses have gone, that there are not enough taxis for women only or reserved seats near the driver on buses and trains, that services are frequent at peak times but otherwise in short supply - or is thoughtlessness a contributory factor too?
As draftsman of the opinion I have serious doubts about the relevance of Amendments Nos 9, 13 and 14 from the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
And another point is that Amendments Nos 13 and 14 are mutually contradictory.
On Monday morning there was a tail-back of around 300 km in the relatively small country of the Netherlands despite the fact that at the eleventh hour an agreement was reached which meant the planned rail strike was called off.
The Green Paper on the citizens' network, the Green Paper on external costs and the White Paper on the future of the railways together form a triple manual on the thinking of the future of the transport of goods and people and indicate that the way ahead is towards a social economic and environmentally responsible transport policy.
First of all, although we should not overestimate the authority of the European Union in drawing up a citizens' network no-one can dispute that an internal market cannot operate without a coherent system of public transport.
We regretted that Mr Castricum could not be present to join this ongoing debate outside the European Parliament buildings last week but it is good to see him here tonight.
Perhaps the Commissioner could see fit to promote the greater use of cycle paths throughout the European Union and easier access for bicycles to be carried on trains.
I would like the Commissioner to confirm tonight to the House that he fully supports the new European Union safety competence enshrined in Article 75 of the Treaty of Maastricht.
For the first time a coach travelling between London and Lisbon will be permitted to pick up and put down passengers in France or Spain.
I welcome this freedom and the greater liberalization which this expresses.
In conclusion, I welcome the Wijsenbeek and Killilea reports.
The EU and individual Member States also committed themselves at the environmental conference in Rio to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, among other things.
When we talk about the trans-European networks then it is also sensible to see the connection between these four or five Green Papers I have just mentioned and then we would be well advised not just to say blindly that we cannot dictate choices to the hauliers.
Mr President, the point I would like to emphasize in my intervention is the central role of the public service and of the universal service.
The obligations deriving from such a service are aimed at guaranteeing that all - absolutely everyone - have access to quality services at an affordable price.
Strict application of this principle to a great extent contributes to the economic and social cohesion of such regions, involving essential principles of operation such as regularity, equality of access, universality and transparency.
Thank you, Mr Killilea.
We will not be entering into a debate on this matter.
Of course, one may wonder what a Green Paper or a parliamentary report can do to change the actual conditions in our cities.
First, as far as the environment is concerned, a lot has been said already.
A third aspect which is not sufficiently brought out in the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is, of course, the economic one.
Regular urban and suburban services are usually part of the public service and, accordingly, involve aspects which have their place in a general discussion of public services, or even of the universal service.
We know that some countries have set up public passenger transport systems as a service for the citizen without necessarily going through the tender procedure to ensure compliance with profitability criteria, while in some cases they actually form part of a deliberate employment policy and so would not satisfy any profitability calculation.
Mr President, it is my opinion that the reports we are dealing with today are an extremely good contribution to the development of transport to the benefit of European citizens.
International transport from one country to another and permission to pick up passengers in the context of international transport systems is something quite different.
We Christian Democrats naturally welcome and support the Commission's Green Paper, because it is both right and necessary that the European Union should promote an exchange of experiences between cities and conurbations on ways of improving short-distance public transport, in particular, and should support model projects to increase the intermodality of transport movements.
But, Mr Kinnock, this liberalization must not lead to any 'reverse discrimination' against enterprises.
Thank you, Mr Jarzembowski.
You then extend the time for a greater or lesser period, but this is something you do under your own responsibility.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Commission's proposal on the introduction of common rules for cross-border passenger traffic by motor bus.
Improved opportunities for motor buses within the single market are not only sensible but long overdue.
Too often in the past we have liberalized things in Europe without harmonizing the foundations and underlying conditions.
Mr President, this has been a very interesting and quite lengthy debate.
It is what I would expect from someone with his very extensive experience in public transport as the extremely successful chairman of public transport in Vienna for some years past.
I understand Parliament's desire to organize the debate on the citizens' network in conjunction with the two proposals on road passenger transport which was the subject of Mr Killilea's reports.
The debate is far from over and this report is a valuable part of that debate.
On competence of the Union, I share the belief that the Union must encourage an integrated planning process for transport systems and I also share the belief that in all cases users must be closely involved in planning and decision-making.
It is worth stressing, however, that when considering subsidies, the relevant authorities should also take into account the potential cross-sector benefits of aid to public transport, in particular in the way in which public transport can assist with general levels of health and obviously with social welfare.
On the subject of land-use planning I share the view that transport issues must be taken into account at an early stage in discussions on land use and those decisions, by their very nature, are best taken at local level.
However, the Commission will study this subject further in order to provide a useful input into the discussions on how transport considerations can best be taken into account if the character of land use is changed or intensified.
The greater part of the Committee on Transport and Tourism's report is rightly devoted to the specific topic of public transport.
The concept of the citizens' network applies to all passengers.
On the report's references to environment and health, I fully support moves to make transport less polluting and I note the support for the different Commission programmes to that end.
Based on that information, in the New Year I shall produce a follow-up communication which will set out actions and measures we propose to undertake at Community level in order to advance the development of the citizens' network.
In keeping with what I said earlier on subsidiarity in this sector, the action plan for the Commission will necessarily have limitations but it is essential to keep the topic alive in political discussions and we will do that with the cooperation, I trust, of this Parliament.
I now turn very briefly to the two proposals on road passenger transport.
On the first proposal relating to cabotage, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4 and Amendment No 6 in principle, Amendments Nos 9 and 11 subject to ensuring they are consistent with Article 58 of the Treaty, Amendment No 13 so far as it refers to the exclusion of urban and suburban transport, Amendment No 14 and as a consequence the first parts of Amendments Nos 18 and 16, paragraph 2.
Amendment No 5 detracts from our goal of promoting coach and bus transport.
We cannot accept Amendment No 8 because we accept Amendment No 9.
Amendment No 10 is incompatible with freedom to provide services and most of Amendment No 13 would excessively limit cabotage rights.
The new definition introduced in Amendment No 12 is inconsistent with our aim of harmonizing the definition for the two regulations in question.
Finally, Amendment No 15 and the first part of Amendment No 16 cannot be accepted as the information stipulated will be provided in the report envisaged under the proposed Article 16.
Obviously the date of 31 December 1996 is far too soon for everything except being New Year's Eve.
On the second proposal relating to international carriage, the Commission can accept Amendment No 1, the second part of Amendment No 5, Amendments Nos 6 and 11 so far as they refer to the exclusion of urban and suburban transport, Amendment No 7 in principle, the new definitions introduced in Amendments Nos 12 and 13, and Amendment Nos 17, 18 and 28.
The dates proposed in Amendments Nos 24, 25 and 26 are too soon.
I hope therefore that on this occasion he will accept my thanks for his thorough work and appreciate my reasons for my attempted brevity, especially at this late hour.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
This is no place for a history of the directives dealing with these problems, but I remind the House that no fewer than 16 years have passed since the first directive in 1980, the seventh, dated 30 May 1994, having come into force only in 1996 and being valid until 1997, under which official summer time begins on the last Sunday in March and ends on the last Sunday in October for all Member States.
The eighth directive proposed by the Council and the European Parliament defining summer time as beginning on the last Sunday in March and ending on the last Sunday in October has my agreement, since I believe it is a priority for the period of summer time to be harmonized.
In Italy, which unlike France or Austria is not self-sufficient in energy, the 1996 saving was assessed at about 900 million kWh.
Finally, however, it is necessary to bear in mind the Eastern European time zone which includes Finland, Greece and those eastern countries that have already applied for membership of the European Union; for those countries, it is not realistic to hold out any prospect of a European Community, in the near future, with a uniform timetable for summer time.
So the Environment Committee supports the Commission proposal.
Finally the Belleré report contains three amendments which open the possibility of any country introducing summertime or not, as it wants.
Thank you, Mr Blokland.
Mr President, there are many good arguments in favour of summer time, including the fact that, as the rapporteur stated earlier, we extend the day and have lighter evenings; there is also the fact that summer time has a positive effect on tourism, recreational activities and the service industries.
This demonstrates that there is a certain lack of reason in the debate.
Despite the fact that the system is already in operation it is now being said that the Council of Ministers is considering abandoning the principle of a common summer time throughout the EU.
Thank you, Mr Waidelich.
Be that as it may, this proposal for an 8th directive analyses the results of an extra hour of daylight and comes to the conclusion that the majority of citizens are in favour of its continuing.
In Spain, the annual energy saving amounts to 11, 500 million pesetas, equivalent to 600 million kilowatts/hour.
The previous directive already advised Members of the Community that, in 1996, the time-change would not take place until 27 October.
Until that time, 10 European countries made the changeover at the end of September and the rest at the end of October.
I would therefore, on behalf of the European People's Party, like to express my Group's support for this report which, whilst respecting subsidiarity, proposes something which is indeed within the competence of the Community: full harmonization of dates and summer time, since the time system and its application is the exclusive competence of each Member State.
Mr President, this is one of these very sensitive questions in some parts of Europe and the further north you go the more sensitive it becomes.
Ironically, not where Santa Claus lives right up in the Arctic Circle but in the intermediate zone and Scotland in particular, and especially in the islands like Shetland and the Western Isles, this has become a very hot potato indeed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been living with summertime for quite a while now, and we are not really consciously aware of its adverse effects.
When summertime was introduced in Austria, it came in for some very heated criticism.
I am committed to the single market, and without a uniform arrangement there can be no question of a functional single market, which is the necessary basis for greater cohesion in Europe.
It is important to ensure that the time difference between countries is never more than one hour, which actually is already too much.
First and foremost, our concern must be to protect consumers.
In the countries of central and southern Europe, summertime offers advantages for the consumer, and for industry too.
I do not agree with the French approach that Member States themselves should be allowed to chose whether to introduce it or not.
It would really be quite remarkable if in a citizens' Europe one of the Member States in the heart of the European Union were not to swim with the tide, with all the resultant problems for international transport and traffic.
May I in conclusion congratulate the rapporteur on his report which was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Transport and Tourism?
As the House will know, the summer-time regime was originally introduced by a national decision in several Member States mostly at the end of the 1970s.
The objective of the first directive of the Community which entered into force in 1981 was the gradual harmonization of the timetable of the summer-time period to set common dates for the beginning and the end of this period in all Community Member States.
The main purpose of the Community arrangements was to remove obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and people provided by the differing national summer-time arrangements.
Full harmonization was finally achieved with the seventh Directive of 1994 which specified that in 1996 and 1997 the summer-time period would begin on the last Sunday in March and end on the last Sunday in October in all Members States without exception.
There could be no finer vindication of the points made by several Members in the course of this debate.
The findings of a study carried out on behalf of the Commission last year on the effects of the application of summer-time in the European Union have recalled important benefits generated by summer-time particularly in tourism, in the leisure industry as well as in public health and road safety.
Moreover, the various sectors which were consulted by the Commission at a hearing held in September 1995 expressed themselves largely in favour of the system provided that the timetable is fully harmonized throughout the Union.
Therefore, the proposal for an eighth Directive which is being considered tonight lays down the same arrangements as introduced by the seventh Directive for 1996 and 1997.
For reasons of timetabling, particularly in the transport and communications sectors which expressed their wish to have a sufficiently long programming period, it is also suggested that we set the summer-timetable for a four-year period, that is for 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001.
Naturally I am very pleased to note that the rapporteur shares most of the conclusions of our report and has so effectively supported the Commission proposal.
On Amendments Nos 1 and 2, the Commission would like to point out that any arrangement enabling any Member State not to apply a summer-time regime would be contrary to the objective of harmonization which is the main purpose of the summer-time directive.
As a matter of fact, the abandonment of summer-time by one or several Member States while the directive is in force would certainly create the same negative effects as those generated in the past in the transport and communications sectors when there was no Community legislation in this matter.
The points made on that specific aspect of the issue by Members in the course of this debate have been very telling.
In this respect I should like to remind the House of the findings of a study carried out in 1993 on the costs of different dates for return to winter-time.
Therefore, the Commission considers that the reintroduction of divergencies would constitute a backward step in the harmonization that the Community achieved with the seventh Directive and would affect not only the good functioning of the internal market but also transport and communications with European third countries which are applying the summer-time regime.
For all those reasons the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
The arrangements proposed in the report would limit national decisions regarding time arrangements other than the application of a summer-time regime.
That would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity according to which any decision regarding other time arrangements, falls within Member States' competence and their competence alone.
In conclusion, the Commission maintains its directive proposal as it stands because it complies fully with the mission of harmonization which was given to the Commission by Member States in order to remove any obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and people throughout the Community.
I remain vehemently in favour of the kind of arrangement we have and I hope that carries the view of the House.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Ladies and gentlemen, although time is short, I would like to remind you that it was this European Parliament which - because there was no pan-European transport policy at that time - crucially influenced the debate in the late 1980s.
I am pleased to put it on record, Commissioner Kinnock, that this tradition of cooperation and support - because this is a common concern - was continued by you immediately after you entered office.
Even the very generalized declaration of Prague, dating from 1991, formed the basis for the further development of European transport policy as a whole, partly in conjunction with the regional conferences and sectoral conferences which have taken place in ever-increasing numbers.
A very important contribution has also been made by our Steering Committee.
This is a unique institution, bringing together representatives of the European Parliament, the Commission, the Council of Ministers and other organizations relevant to the further development of a pan-European transport policy - for example, the Council of Transport Ministers, the United Nations Economic Commission, the Economic and Social Committee and the Civil Aviation Authority.
In May 1997 there is to be a big transport exhibition in Helsinki, which is thematically linked to the third pan-European Transport Conference to be held in that city's Finlandia Hall in June next year.
As far as the agenda is concerned, it was actually clear to us from the start, when we began the preparatory work, that we would have to go into greater detail in order to achieve more concrete results, and that is reflected in the agenda.
This conference is to conclude with a Helsinki Declaration, which will go into greater detail and provide a genuine basis for future work on the pan-European transport policy.
This Helsinki Declaration is not intended to be in the nature of a charter but - in the same way as the previous Prague and Crete declarations - to provide a basis through a voluntary commitment.
But, in the development of the panEuropean transport policy, with the assistance of all those who are willing and able to cooperate, there still remains a great deal to be done.
In order for these conferences and the resulting recommendations to be successful, we must once again be sure that, at the third pan-European Transport Conference as at the first two, we enjoy the benefits of close cooperation - close collaboration between the Commission, Parliament, the national transport ministers and the transport ministers of the non-European States.
In all seriousness, Commissioner Kinnock, please think again about this!
Mr President, I welcome this opportunity to debate the third pan-European conference on transport.
I also think it important to consult with the countries of central and eastern Europe on the desired European transport policy for the coming years.
I should like to draw your attention to two points.
My second point concerns the serious obstacles and delays facing road traffic at the border between the European Union and Poland, for example, and at the borders between countries in eastern Europe.
I read an article in a Dutch newspaper with the headlines 'Off to Belarus at 75 metres per hour' .
Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Lüttge for his excellent report, initiating formal preparations for the Third Pan-European Transport Conference.
His work is very constructive and he, together with the Russians, are making a variety of preparations to ensure their effective participation in the conference.
On the substance of the conference a programme has, as suggested in the report, been drawn up focusing on three key areas: the stock-taking of developments in transport policy since the Greek conference of 1994, financing of transport infrastructure and thirdly the intelligent use of transport systems.
The Third Pan-European Conference will, as Mr Lüttge correctly pointed out, provide representatives from the European transport industry with a particular opportunity to put forward not only their ideas in a variety of areas but also their products because they will have the opportunity to exhibit them.
I believe that this will in a variety of ways enrich the conference as will the participation of a number of organizations that are not strictly governmental or industrial but certainly have experience and well-authenticated views to put in the context of a conference like the one that will be held in Helsinki.
That should set out broad principles for the conduct of transport policy without of course committing the European Union, its Member States or institutions to specific legislative action or to negotiations on international agreements.
Since then work on the nine corridors has been pursued in the G24 Transport Group as well as in workshops on specific corridors.
My staff have recently begun consultations at expert level with all of the participating countries, the relevant international organizations and the international financial institutions in order to review the work done so far and to report to the conference.
The work will continue after the conference and Community institutions will be involved in accordance with our internal procedures.
In concluding, I would like to stress the importance that the Commission attaches to the success of the conference.
I hope that the debate and the proceedings of that conference will provide a new impetus towards the further development of transport systems, clearly a matter of vital importance for European integration and economic and social development.
I regret the passage past midnight but their work is all the more valuable.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
