Thank you, Mr Eisma.
In this morning's Guardian it is reported that precisely that is going to happen.
Mr Kerr, you are aware of the leniency of this Chair, particularly on Friday mornings, which are peaceful days.
Mr Hallam, I note your concern, which I share because, being in the Chair, I could appear more often on television but, in all events, Mr Hallam, I will not forget to pass this matter on to the appropriate authorities.
The report on a strategy for mountain regions is a more thorough examination of one aspect of a general report, submitted during the last parliamentary term, on less-favoured areas in the broader sense.
Mr Santini, it is not the Chair's practice to cut speakers short, but please bear in mind that your statement is virtually an explanation of vote and re-opens the entire debate.
But I do not intend to reopen this debate.
Given the importance of encouraging forestry, such as the highly successful British community forest movement which I know best from the Red Rose Forest in my own constituency, it is important that this report's concerns about other users of EU forestry aid are addressed.
It is, of course, vital that these needs be taken into account in the Structural Funds, but as regards agricultural activity in itself, such activity requires specific aid that is, in fact, a compensatory allowance for natural handicaps.
The difference in production between less-favoured areas and lowland areas must be compensated for as the future of these areas and the future of land-use management are dependent upon it.
As regards ecologically sensitive areas such as wetlands, specific environmental constraints imposed on these areas must be taken into account, as these also penalize the productivity of farms.
We must not forget that, in the wetlands for example, farmers must not only take into account the canals that divide up their areas of land but they must also maintain the overall infrastructure, keeping it as it often has been for several hundred years.
Rehder report (A4-0298/98) Agricultural support is very unevenly allocated.
But this is not the case in this report.
Such matters should be dealt with in the context of the Agenda 2000 proposals, not in this report.
According to the rapporteur, the current agricultural system is socially unbalanced because 80 % of the support goes to only 20 % of the farmers.
Further and complementary training in the library and information sector is a major challenge, and it is here that European cooperation can produce results.
It is important that the Telematics for Libraries programme which was launched in 1990 and started a splendid process of cooperation should be extended in the fifth framework programme of research and technical development.
I hope the Commission, when preparing its green paper on the role of libraries in the information society, considers the views expressed in this report and takes them on board in order to promote a democratic information society for our citizens.
This poses a threat to the modern library service, and is a big problem for the issues of equality, education and culture in the information society.
The problem lies in the type of paper used.
We are talking about libraries such as that of the Congress of the United States, or the National Library of Paris, with 11 million volumes.
The second point I want to mention concerns the special effort we must make to promote libraries in the European Union's major cities which specialise in the culture, civilisation and knowledge of other peoples and languages of the EU.
Libraries are extremely important for our civilisation and culture in Europe.
Thank you, Mr Kerr.
You have just mentioned Mr Otto von Habsburg.
I would therefore like to ask the Commissioner responsible for culture what progress has been made on harmonising copyright and the concerns expressed in this report.
Subjects such as copyright, royalties and a European library network are important, but here again I feel that they are more a job for the Council of Europe or UNESCO.
Mr President, this report is an important and extensive piece of work on the role of libraries.
I hope that in the future there will be still more cross-border cooperation in the area of library development; the new technologies already require it.
I also think that it is very important for this report to be dealt with during this Parliament, before the Barzanti report is discussed in plenary at the end of this year, and before my own report on the World Intellectual Property Organisation.
The European Parliament is an example of indoctrinated communications.
Libraries merit special attention within the European Union's cultural strategy, with particular reference to the information society.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to discuss this report on the importance of libraries for the European Union.
The role of libraries in organising access to knowledge is becoming more and more important and is particularly worthy of our attention.
Other aspects, for example issues of copyright or universal access, should be placed within a wider context.
The Commission therefore thinks it ought already to draft a communication on the role of libraries, which could serve as a basis for coordinating all the important issues which affect modern library and information services and citizens' access to them.
The communication would therefore address a number of subjects of specific importance for libraries, such as lifelong learning, copyrights, the promotion of reading, regional information services, and extensive cooperation between public libraries in access to knowledge and culture.
The debate is closed.
Thank you, Mrs Maes.
Mr President, 10 years ago, when Mrs Lemas presented her report on sign language to the House, she had a group of visitors in the gallery who were following our discussion through a sign language interpreter.
I must admit that I myself have not yet learnt sign language, although we Members were offered the opportunity to do so by the European Union of the Deaf.
That was in connection with a project on sign language, carried out in 1996-97, which culminated in a conference in September 1997 and an extensive report on sign language in the EU.
But we know that television is not the only modern information system.
In our Member States there are seven different systems for text telephones and these are not compatible.
However, the Commission's view is that the main responsibility lies with the Member States, and that is why it is not planning any specific proposals on this.
Further cooperation projects on general or vocational training for people with special needs may be developed within the framework of the Socrates or Leonardo programmes.
Currently though, we have individual state provisions on television programmes in sign language.
Already in 1996 the Commission communication on equality of opportunity for handicapped people had spelled out the advantages of the 'Design for All' idea in connection with multimedia applications.
I am glad today to be able to tell you that on 22 September of this year, the Commission adopted a code of conduct for its own employment of handicapped people.
At any rate, the Commission will continue to back a wide range of measures to protect the interests of the deaf, in particular by supporting the European Union of the Deaf.
The European Parliament could lead the way by good example, and for instance have a special monitor up there in the gallery to transmit debates to the deaf or hearing-impaired.
Mr President, on behalf of our group I should like to express our support for the various issues that Mrs Schmidbauer raised at the beginning of this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 18 November.
On 12 May, the European Court of Justice decided on the basis of complaints from several Member States, especially the UK, and I think this is worthy of note, that two things are required to release funds from the EU budget: the first is financing with commitment and payment appropriations, and the second is an adequate legal base.
Let us not forget though that the European Parliament, and the Committee on Budgets in particular, has been calling for such a regulation for the past 16 years.
Considering that for 16 years we have concerned ourselves with this essential demand, and now within a few days it is ready to be implemented, you can see how much of a contribution the Court's decision has made to placing the arrangements - and ultimately also the decisions - between the institutions on the appropriate legal basis.
And as the Commissioner has just explained to us, the payments were made within 60 days.
The European Court of Justice case made it worse this year but I have to say that in my 4 ½ years experience in this Parliament it has been the same every year with the Commission.
The debate is closed.
Ladies and gentlemen, before ending, may I express my thanks as usual to all of Parliament's services.
