Madam President, I am grateful to you for giving me the floor.
I therefore request, President, that you write a letter on behalf of the European Parliament to the British Prime Minister expressing our shock and horror at the magnitude of this terrible disaster, asking him to and pass on our deepest sympathy to the relatives of those people who have died, and also to the relatives of those who remain seriously injured in the hope that they make a full recovery.
Turkey also has, and will have, an important role to play in maintaining peace and stability in our continent.
By virtue of the decisions made at Luxembourg in 1997 and Cardiff in 1998, Turkey is involved in the enlargement process.
This strategy involves both a broadening of cooperation in different areas, as well as financial cooperation.
Two proposals for a Regulation relating to financial cooperation in respect of the European Strategy are at present on the agenda in the European Parliament.
There are serious failings with regard to human rights in Turkey, including the rights of minority groups.
The OSCE Summit in Istanbul on 18 - 19 November will be an important opportunity for Turkey to show that it is trying to improve the situation with regard to generally accepted civil liberties.
The European Union opposes the death penalty everywhere, and whatever the case.
However, the death sentence has not been carried out in the country since 1984.
In addition, we would like to remind everyone that non-implementation of the death penalty belongs to the common set of values of the Union, a Union whose membership Turkey has indicated it aspires to.
Recently we have seen encouraging signs that relations between Turkey and Greece have improved.
The European Union and the country holding the Presidency give their full support to UN efforts to achieve a lasting and just solution to the situation in Cyprus.
The European Union wishes to support the reconstruction work in Turkey.
The central issue will be how to strengthen Turkey' s status as a candidate.
In this there is no doubt that we need the support of concrete action on the part of the European Parliament in matters of financing and general support to develop and consolidate relations between the European Union and Turkey.
Today' s discussions are taking place at a time when relations between the European Union and Turkey have the opportunity to pursue a new course: exactly two months before the European Council meeting in Helsinki, which is expected to make important decisions with regard to the enlargement process as a whole and with regard to Turkey in particular.
The representative of the Presidency has just given a political analysis of the current situation, which the Commission can fully endorse.
Shortly after the European Council of December 1997, the Commission discharged the "European Strategy" on Turkey' s preparation for accession in all relevant areas.
This European Strategy was drawn up as a specific, customised introductory strategy with the goal of expanding and deepening the existing Customs Union.
The Commission proposals were approved politically at the Summit meeting in Cardiff in June 1998.
The Customs Union was improved in some areas, and the exploratory talks regarding a possible free trade agreement in the service sector have made good progress.
The Commission experts visited Turkey in order to improve our general knowledge of Turkish legislation in all the areas concerned.
Concerning financing, I wish to point out that by the end of this year, Turkey will receive a share of EUR 375 million from the MEDA I financing programme.
If we really want to help Turkey in the preparations for accession, as the European Council in Luxembourg wanted it with the European Strategy, then we must also show that we ourselves will make a significant contribution to the achievement of this goal.
At this point, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Commission reacted so promptly following the devastating earthquake which shook Turkey on 17 August.
The decision to make EUR 30 million in emergency aid available for reconstruction was possibly thanks to the speedy reaction of the budgetary authority.
In future, the European Investment Bank will grant medium-term loans of up to EUR 600 million for reconstruction, and also macro-financial aid of up to EUR 200 million, in order to support the current reforms in close agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
Turkey does not fulfil the political part of these criteria.
However, the question is how we can ensure that the necessary reforms are initiated in Turkey and that Turkey is resolutely and irreversibly on the way to becoming an established member of the family of European democracies.
Recently Turkey has made some progress, though by no means enough, in the field of democratisation and human rights, and I can point out that this will also be made clear in the next progress report on Turkey.
This report will indicate, among other things, that in June of this year, the system of special courts was changed and the military judge eliminated from the Turkish national security court.
It will point out that a number of important legislative and administrative measures have been carried out in order to prevent the abuse of human rights by public servants.
I would also like to stress that the rapprochement between Greece and Turkey which had been achieved shortly before the earthquake in various matters of mutual interest is an encouraging sign for the future.
I sincerely hope that the trust achieved between both these countries by means of détente will give them the possibility of addressing the difficult issues of security in the region in the same spirit as in previous discussions.
As you know, Turkey has decided in favour of Europe and is ready to undertake its obligations under the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I would like to inform you as early as today that next week I shall be proposing that the Commission issues a recommendation for the Helsinki Summit to the effect that Turkey should also be treated as a candidate for accession on the same basis as all the others.
The time leading up to the Helsinki Summit must be used by Turkey and by us to agree jointly upon a timetable for Turkey.
Appropriate initiatives by Turkey in the run-up to the Helsinki Summit would doubtless increase the chances of success of this European Council meeting.
I am convinced that this Parliament will play an essential role in the forthcoming debate, particularly when, following the decision at Helsinki to grant Turkey candidate status, the comprehensive process of alignment of legislation, of screening begins.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the statements of the representative of the Council Presidency and also the representative of the Commission, one must certainly assume that a resolution to grant Turkey candidate status will be brought at the Helsinki Summit.
Yet we ask ourselves: what has changed since December 1997 in Luxembourg, when Turkey was invited to a European Conference and refused the invitation?
I must tell you, though, that we could not support this compromise text of the motion in this form, neither Item D nor clause 1, because it would give the impression specifically that Turkey' s membership would have a positive influence on security, stability and development in the European Union.
Rather, I am saying it because we in the Group of the European People' s Party were always in favour of having as close a partnership and as friendly relations as possible with Turkey, and that is, of course, still true today.
We therefore want to establish a forum between the European Union and Turkey in which we can discuss all Community issues.
Enlargement to the countries of central Europe must be initiated first.
But let us not take the second step before the first and, above all, let us do all we can so that this European Union, this great project of European unification, will be a strong, empowered and democratic European Union in the 21st century!
This must take priority over all other considerations because we want a Europe of peace and stability in good, clear partnership with Turkey.
But the time has not yet come to make strategic decisions regarding Turkey' s membership of the European Union.
I would also like to spell out clearly that my group cannot today say either yes or no to it, because we are familiar neither with the progress report nor with the discussions which the Council is having with Turkey.
Firstly, particularly on the initiative of the Greek Foreign Minister, to whom I should like to pay great tribute, a considerably better, though still not perfect, relationship between Turkey and our fellow Member State, Greece, has been achieved, as well as a step in the direction of finding a solution to the Cyprus issue which is so important.
My criterion and our criterion in the Social-Democrat Group is as follows: by sending a positive sign can we reinforce the positive changes which are emerging in Turkey, or not?
But we have one goal as Socialists and Social Democrats and that is to change things and relationships in Turkey in such as way as to be able to speak of real democracy, freedom and respect for human rights there.
If a signal is given in Helsinki, then it must have that as its goal, and it must give full support to those who fight for human rights in Turkey.
In this spirit, on behalf of my group, I am hoping for a good decision in Helsinki.
Madam President, the central question seems to be whether this Parliament and the European Union show themselves to be sufficiently self-assured to confirm Turkey' s status as a candidate.
A failure to do so will provoke a serious crisis in our relations with Turkey.
Nobody wants special treatment for Turkey and nobody should ignore the series of problems over the treatment of the Kurds or over the situation in Cyprus.
My group believes that the discipline of candidate status will involve Turkey in more serious preparation for membership, a stronger dialogue and greater exposure to European Union culture and politics.
Parliament has certainly been dragging its feet on this issue, as the MEDA programme and the financial support for the European strategy show.
I plead to all those who want Turkey to modernise on the basis of its European traditions to support our amendment.
Madam President, in his speech at the formal opening of the new legal year in Turkey on 6 September, the Senior Judge of the Supreme Court of Appeal, Sami Selçuk, strongly denounced the country' s constitution.
He spoke in favour of widespread democratic reform and also fundamental restructuring of the political system.
I am even convinced that the majority in this House is also in favour of a democratic Turkey, in which human rights and minority rights are respected.
It is my conviction, too, that we are bound to support democratic circles and their modest successes not just on moral grounds but also because a democratic Turkey, which can solve its own problems within Turkey, will be advantageous for the internal security of the European Union.
By means of our policy we could make a contribution towards ensuring that the proponents of a European democracy in Turkey may be successful and that the hawks who are against Europe may be the losers.
Therefore, whatever the timetable or the exact procedure, in Helsinki a sign must be given towards the people of Turkish and Kurdish origin and towards democracy in Turkey.
I cannot as yet say anything for sure on behalf of my group on the integration of Turkey, because we are still having discussions, but for me personally, it means as Mr Verheugen has already said, that it has candidate status for accession to the European Union.
Its integration is urgently necessary, not just for the democratisation of Turkey, but also for peace and stability in the Balkans and in South-Eastern Europe.
Mr Poettering himself stated just now in his report that at the time of the customs agreements, he was in favour of this step.
If we continue with the goal of enlarging the Community and, at the same time, of ensuring it complies with fundamental principles and values, this institution will assume its true role once more, which is fundamental in terms of foreign policy and international credibility.
Madam President, the terrible earthquake of 17 August took place in the very region of Turkey that has the highest per capita income.
The three provinces in the disaster area account for no less than 17% of the country' s industrial production.
The spontaneous assistance provided by their traditional arch enemies Greece and Armenia refuted the Turks saying that a Turk will only find friends among fellow countrymen.
Only then will it be able to take the path to accession.
But the problem you are now confronted with is that whilst, as a politician, you obviously have to act when the going is good, you also of course have to ask the question as to what will actually happen next once a country has been granted candidate status.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Representative of the Council, it is clear that today' s debate on EU-Turkey relations is a limbering up for the negotiations to be held at the Summit meeting in Helsinki at the end of the year.
I believe that we all, or at least most of us, agree on certain basic issues.
We want Turkey to have a positive European vocation.
Finally, we all, or at least most of us, know that, in Turkey, individual freedoms, freedom of the press, the prison service and methods of police interrogation bear no correlation with democracy or with European culture.
The chief obstacle to Turkey' s entry is its inability to meet the political criteria laid down at Copenhagen, especially regarding democracy, human rights and the rights of minorities, especially the Kurdish people.
The PKK has committed some atrocities but these have been far outweighed by those perpetrated by the Turkish army.
Our mistake is to perceive Turkey more as a strategic military ally than as a political partner.
Madam President, it is clear that both the Council and the Commission are determined to grant Turkey candidate status within the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the French, Flemish and Italian Members of Parliament in the Coordination of the European Right are in favour of establishing a relationship with Turkey based on mutual respect, mutual benefit and non-interference in internal affairs.
The main part of its territory and population is in Asia.
Mr President, I think that as far as the thorny and complex matter of relations with Turkey is concerned, we should begin by stating the fact that relations between the European Union and Turkey have been in hibernation for the last two years.
I do not think that dodging a question that we will have to face up to sooner or later is a good idea.
I think that within the European Union, we must face up to this situation with clarity, not by replacing reality with a reality of our own invention, because when all is said and done, that produces nothing but discontent and frustration.
Mr President, I sincerely believe that the most important factor in relations between the European Union and Turkey is to avoid making U-turns and complete shifts in policy.
It is essential not to give out wrong or unrealistic messages either to the Ankara Government or to the Turkish people, and to base our position on two principles.
But to add other criteria would certainly not be European in the best sense of the word.
The resolution we have before us articulates this view, Madam President, particularly in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
Mr President, I concur with all the speakers who have pointed out that the current changes in Turkish policy are completely inadequate.
Article 7 even provides for the suspension of those Member States that do not abide by Article 6.
Of course, we cannot compromise the character of the European Union on geopolitical grounds and for reasons of Realpolitik.
We cannot allow a State that is not a constitutional State to determine our common future; there cannot even be negotiations on that point.
The litmus test for the Greek Government consists in their willingness to lift the blockade on the financial aspects of the Customs Union.
That is the only real contribution the Greek Government can make and any friendly noises it might otherwise make are completely empty gestures.
Mr President, the chairman of the Group of the European People' s Party expressed his sympathy with regard to my own group, because at the time we made heavy weather of the decision on Customs Union.
We must really ask ourselves in all conscience if we want to have Turkey in the European Union or not.
Nuances of wording, whether it concerns one candidate for one candidacy, as in this case, or whether we should establish a new category of candidates, who are indeed valid candidates but with whom no negotiations are held, will by no means be beneficial to our relationship with Turkey.
This is a people of between 12 and 20 million individuals, who nowhere, either in Turkey or in other countries, can enjoy their freedoms, human rights and rights as citizens.
Mr President, Mr President-in-office of the Council, Commissioner, there is no doubt that the tensions, the insecurity and the instability are all enemies of development and prosperity.
It is therefore evident that we consider closer rapprochement between Turkey and the European Union a positive development.
I ought to stress the point, so as to avoid any misunderstanding, that the rapprochement of Greece and Turkey, despite the historical antagonism and the fundamental differences, is in fact one of the most significant issues in our country' s foreign and security policy.
Provided that Turkey conforms to the prerogatives and duties imposed on those states wishing to join the European Union, and provided it subsequently fulfils the criteria and follows the programme stipulated in the joint decisions in Copenhagen and Luxembourg, then it could progress with its European goals.
It would be wrong for other applicant countries and would set an unpleasant precedent in the framework of enlargement and of current and future..... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I think that this debate and the motion that we are discussing today fully demonstrate Parliament' s wish to give out a clear, strong and friendly signal of cooperation, a signal which takes note of the Greek Government' s changed position with regard to the Turkish Government.
The Copenhagen political criteria are ethical criteria which represent the real identity of Parliament and the European Union.
The ethical criteria mean human rights, democracy and respect for minorities.
I think that the summary we have made in our motion is a fair one, and that we should impose it on Turkey.
Turkey' s application has to be judged on the basis of the following criteria: Turkey' s strategic geographic and economic position and how this impacts on Europe; Turkey' s crucial role as a member of NATO and how this membership could be sustained if the door is permanently shut in its face; Turkey, which as a future responsible member of the EU could be the fire extinguisher for the fires of discontent that burn in the Middle East and beyond.
The reality is that there are large numbers of Turks living in Germany and France, large numbers of Muslims - including Turkish Cypriots - who live in Britain.
The populations of Kosovo and Albania are predominantly Muslim.
Turkey cannot join the EU today; but geography, culture, history, security and common sense . . . (The President cut the speaker off) Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in introducing my proposal, I would like to remind you of the European Parliament resolution voted on 18 June 1987.
In this resolution, there were four points which constituted inescapable obstacles in examining the possible accession of Turkey to the Community.
Let me remind you of these four points.
It is up to Turkey to change its attitude if it really wishes to join the European Union.
We know that democracy can be strong in a country, as history has recently shown, only if this country is able to recognise the rights of minorities and to respect them.
Turkey is and remains an important partner of Europe.
But this partnership is not strengthened by now offering the prospect of accession to Turkey.
The prospect of accession, Mr Verheugen, which the Helsinki Summit will open up and which you have described here on behalf of the Commission, is, we are firmly convinced, clearly the wrong way to go.
Therefore, the admission of Turkey would lead for a variety of reasons to a qualitative change in the European Union and to an inevitable standstill in European efforts for integration.
The Ankara Agreement is not a sufficient reason for this as, since this Agreement with the EEC, in three amendments to the Treaties, the Single European Act, the Maastricht Treaty and the Amsterdam Treaty, Europe has documented its willingness and capacity to transfer further competences from the national to the European level and thus deepen Europe.
My group is, therefore, in favour of an autonomous policy on Turkey just short of accession.
We want these high level relations with Turkey for reasons of security policy, economics and politics.
But we also want to deepen Europe further and not let it be undermined by accessions which we cannot cope with.
Mr President, I must confess when I hear phrases about Europe being overrun and overwhelmed it fills me with absolute horror about the quality of the debate in this Parliament.
Human rights problems in Latvia and Slovakia would never have been dealt with without the positive prospects of European Union membership and Turkey should be treated in the same way.
Mr President, the impassioned and fascinating nature of the debates held last week in Brussels within our group, as those being held right now in this Chamber show, if proof were needed, the importance of the matter before us today.
As a result there is some agreement on the need to intensify the relationship between the European Union and this country.
This is why our group has suggested that a discussion forum be set up, uniting politicians from the European Union and from Turkey, naturally, but also representatives from elsewhere in society.
The objective would be to look in depth into the matters which are still problematic, those involving respect for human rights and minority rights, of course, but also matters relating to economic relationships, and in this respect Europe must fulfil its commitments regarding the Customs Union and expedite the establishment of the appropriate financial protocol.
Establishment of a forum of this type seems to me the only way to respond to the questions that remain without hypocrisy.
Mr President, I think that the new position which has been outlined for Helsinki on relations between the European Union and Turkey is a good one, and that it should perhaps be made more urgent, by stating even more firmly, the two principles on which - I believe - our approach is based.
The second is that in order for Turkey to be integrated, it must meet the same requirements accepted by the other Members of the project.
I am convinced that we need Turkey not just for reasons of security but also to regain the credibility and universality of the project of European construction.
A large secular State with a majority Muslim population will prove that the Europe we are building is not a Europe with a Christian outlook, but is rather one based on universal values relevant to every citizen of Europe, of any faith or of none at all.
We must make Turkey aware of this firmly but without exaggerating or caricaturing things, by describing their shortcomings and the obstacles they must overcome without shying away from them, but neither must we portray these difficulties as insurmountable.
The European Union must see their shortcomings, even the most serious ones, as problems, and we will be committed to helping Turkey to find solutions to them, always bearing in mind the fact that our shared objective is to achieve the integration of Turkey into the European Union.
Turkey must still make a lot of progress, embrace western democratic values, and resolve the question of relations with Greece and Cyprus.
Respect for the human rights of the Kurdish minorities also involves Iran.
We are worlds apart as regards capital punishment, human rights, minority rights, democracy and rule of law.
No trust is to be gained by means of hypocritical set phrases, either in Turkey as our partner, or with our citizens at home.
Therefore, we cannot say yes to substantial passages in the compromise resolution before us.
Turkey' s membership of the European Union is not really an important contribution to the future development of the Union.
At the same time we retain our credibility in the eyes of our own citizens.
Mr President, when Romano Prodi was presenting his programme, he told the European Parliament that we had 20 or even 30 years of enlargement in the Union ahead of us, during which time the number of Members would rise to 25 - perhaps more than that.
I fear that many countries, which are much closer to possible accession than Turkey, were given the impression years ago, from many quarters - and I do not mean Parliament, but government representatives - that full membership for the Baltic Countries, Poland and Hungary, for example, would be possible by the year 2002 or 2003.
No, in my opinion, we have to say, as Mr Sasi, representing the Council here, said, that we must see a lot more development in Turkey, but that we wish to show goodwill.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the premise, which is repeated again and again here, according to which Turkey would have to fulfil specific conditions to become a Member of the European Union, is a false one.
We have work to do in the Union, but it is also important that Turkey gives out positive signals during the whole of this process that the country is on the right track for development and that the position of democracy and human rights in Turkey is being strengthened.
The Copenhagen criteria have been discussed here.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Parliament very sincerely for a debate which assists both the work of the Commission and the decision which we have to make.
Permit me to answer a few of the questions which have been asked.
If I am asked whether we will ever live to see Turkey as a Member of the European Union, I say I do not know.
If I am asked, whether we will get to the stage of negotiations with Turkey concerning accession, I again say I do not know.
But we will never find out if we do not now try to start Turkey along the path which will perhaps bring it to a position where, if it wishes, it can enter into accession negotiations with us.
Candidate status does not mean that we are negotiating about accession but that we are checking what needs to happen for the Copenhagen criteria to be fulfilled.
The Helsinki decision that I would like to see would mean that we engage in very serious dialogue with Turkey, engage in the harmonisation of legislation, and tell Turkey specifically what needs to be changed.
Cooperation between Europe and Turkey could be an encouraging and promising example of how cultures living side by side as neighbours can find a joint path towards achieving peace, democracy and rule of law, and also opportunities for prosperity, for their people.
The debate is closed.
Middle East peace process The next item is the Council and Commission statement on the Middle East peace process, followed by a debate.
Mr President, Members of the European Parliament, I am glad to have the opportunity to speak to you today on the present situation regarding the Middle East peace process, and the role of the European Union in it.
The ending of the mid-term stage of the Oslo Agreement on May 4 this year made the situation more uncertain.
We follow the development of the peace process carefully and are in close contact with all parties.
The European Union has made an important contribution to developments in recent months.
It is hoped that the EU will be more active in the Middle East peace process in many contexts.
In my view, there will be a need for faith and trust.
A just, comprehensive and lasting peace will bring with it, not only changes in regional cooperation, but also pressures for change within the countries themselves.
It gives me particular pleasure to call Commissioner Patten.
I believe it is your first major statement to Parliament on behalf of the Commission.
The election of a new and more constructive government in Israel and the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum last month have set the stage for a relaunch of the peace process.
The first troop withdrawals, prisoner releases, and yesterday' s agreement on the opening of the safe passage route between Gaza and the West Bank, all show that both Israelis and Palestinians have begun again their efforts to reach a permanent peace.
The permanent status negotiations have recently started once more.
President Ahtisaari is in the Middle East, a point made by the Presidency, Ambassador Moratinos has been accompanying him and will I know continue to work hard to maximise the European Union' s contribution in the coming vital months.
We are also pressing ahead with the implementation of projects such as the construction of the Gaza seaport and the safe passages between the West Bank and Gaza: projects which are invested with political and social as well as with economic importance.
But peace in the Middle East has a broader dimension - it extends wider than the talks between Israel and the Palestinians, central though they are.
The Presidency and the Commission have renewed their call for a monitoring committee meeting of the regional economic development working group to take place as soon as possible.
The Commission has stepped up its planned support for regional cooperation projects between Israelis and Arabs.
We will propose to Member States next month financing of more than EUR 20m for such projects.
The first generation of people-to-people projects, 17 of them in all, costing some EUR 5m, will start soon.
Members will recall that the European Union, as the Presidency said, is the largest financial donor to the overall efforts in bringing reconciliation to the people of the Middle East.
Let me say a word about our assistance to the Palestinians, a subject in which this Parliament has taken an appropriate interest.
In addition, Israel must find more effective ways of reconciling its legitimate security concerns with the urgent need for genuine Palestinian development.
We are pleased to have recently reached agreement on the update of the tripartite action plan.
I am pleased to report, therefore, that President Arafat has endorsed the recently published report on strengthening Palestinian institutions, prepared by the independent task force sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations with substantial European Union assistance.
In exchange, Europe will continue to play its full part in the peace process.
But let me also stress that we intend to continue working closely with the United States, not as competitors, but as partners, in this matter.
Mr President, many of us feel that the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum represents a milestone in the Middle East peace process that we all want to see.
We do not have to resort to the figures on commercial exchange, investment and cooperation in development to see how important a role the European Union plays in the region, but the European Union' s proven economic solidarity must be valued as highly as its ability to contribute efficiently to a peaceful solution to the conflict.
Nevertheless, the fact that we have mentioned it so many times does not mean we can stop discussing the lack of vision of our contribution, as Europeans, to the peace process.
This is another area for which the European Parliament must accept responsibility in line with its stated desire to contribute to developing a common foreign policy for the European Union.
Mr President, this motion celebrates the good news, the successful ending of the Sharm el-Sheikh negotiations and the agreement of safe passage for Palestinian goods, vehicles and people.
Both these key free trade elements have been absent in part or in whole from Palestinian export trade, particularly in textiles and in agricultural products.
But for peace, or at least possible justice to materialise, the Israeli authorities need to take more steps - some colleagues have already said this - not only because of the Palestinian-Israeli question, but also because of the Lebanese and Syrian question.
On 25 September, the military administration gave the go-ahead for the confiscation of Palestinian land belonging to 79 villages, in the Green Line area of cultivated and inhabited lands.
The European Union has played a positive and important role in the peace process in everything it has done and I think that it should continue to do so.
Mr President, firstly I should like to say that I very much appreciate the comprehensive statement made in the debate this morning by Commissioner Patten on the many complex issues which remain to be contended with in this very difficult area.
There have been key developments taking place in this regard, which have been mentioned by others.
In fact President Arafat and Prime Minister Barak have already signed the memorandum to implement the Wye River Accord and to resume the final status negotiations.
Our Union must continue to play an active role in putting in place and consolidating a permanent peace agreement in the Middle East.
The European Union is right to support a negotiated settlement in the Middle East which reflects the principles of the transfer of land for peace, which ensures the collective and individual security of both Israeli and Palestinian peoples.
I am convinced that the creation of a democratic, viable and peaceful sovereign Palestinian state on the basis of existing negotiated agreements is the best guarantee for the security of Israel.
The implementation of the Wye River Accord seems likely to proceed.
Prime Minister Barak has also vowed to end his reign of occupation of Southern Lebanon within a year.
Peace talks between Israel and Lebanon which have been frozen since 1966 - and the conditions in which Israel' s withdrawal from Lebanon is achieved - will be of particular importance for the safety of UNIFIL personnel who are based there.
European discussions about the peace process in the Middle East often tend, in our view, to be remarkably one-sided.
This kind of interaction will also promote mutual understanding, which is an essential step towards real peace in the Middle East.
As a matter of fact, paragraph 11 of the joint motion for a resolution links up perfectly with this idea.
Lastly, both parties, Israelis and Palestinians, should themselves make it known if they require the European Union to act as a political mediator in the peace process.
This responsibility cannot however involve our judging the current political strategy or the Palestinians and expressing our opinions on democratically elected politicians in Israel.
I think that we must now reconfirm our commitment and make an exceptional effort which will supplement that of the contracting parties which clearly nobody can replace.
But I think that within this framework, the European Union can perhaps play a more political role to help resolve controversial points.
We also think that it is important to continue and intensify the Community "People-to-People" programme mentioned in paragraph 11 of the resolution.
The European Union must target this objective.
The statements by the Council President and Commissioner Patten seem to us to be heading in the right direction.
I think that the EU can play an active role if it is prepared to use economic incentives and keep a careful watch on whether the agreement is being adhered to.
Mr President, in the Basque country we have examined with interest the whole Palestinian peace process, because we also support in Euskal Herria the need to overcome the current political conflict through democratic settlements.
We would like to stress at least three of them: firstly, the continuing colonisation process, both in the Gaza Strip and in the West Bank.
Secondly, the situation of Jerusalem, Al Quds - that is to say, the wish of the Barak government to make the city the indivisible capital of Israel.
And, finally, the lack of solutions for the Palestinian refugees living outside their country, who have the right to return to their home.
As Minister Sasi says, now Israel has no major reasons for not resuming the negotiations with Syria that they left off in 1996.
If these negotiations are successfully settled, we are sure that negotiations between Israel and Lebanon will follow.
In order to ensure that, this time, the way forward for hope which has opened up after the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum is not closed in the future, the political sensitivity and intelligence of the new Government of the State of Israel, whose security we want to see guaranteed, must come up with measures which are capable of creating a lasting confidence on the Palestinian side, so that the peaceful way forward, recently reopened, reaches its final goal as soon as possible.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in Jerusalem, Israelis and Palestinians were signing the Agreement to open the road between Gaza and the West Bank, a free passage through Israel connecting the Palestinian territories.
This corridor, today, is more than a symbol, it is a reality, fragile but tangible.
The way opened up a month ago by the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum finally puts the Oslo and Wye River Accords back on track.
The Accords recognise the Palestinians' right to self-determination, as a State, but also guarantee the right of Israel to live in safety within secure and recognised borders.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I welcome the fact that, according to your statement, there is again movement in the peace process.
I consider the working party on regional cooperation important in taking forward the multilateral negotiations of the Madrid Process.
We ask Israel to make the joint use and fair sharing of resources with Palestine possible, especially in the area of ground water and drinking water supplies.
The peace process between Israel and Syria requires stronger support from the EU.
Nonetheless, this recent agreement has considerable political significance - it marks the end of the deadlock in the peace process after years of stagnation, even sabotage, by the Netanyahu Government which never accepted the terms of the Oslo Accord.
I am sorry that paragraph 7 of the PSE motion for resolution on the freeze on settlement has not been included in the compromise text.
The European contribution to peace in the Middle East is expressed not only by means of economic and financial aid, it is also by adhering firmly to the political principles of a fair and lasting solution that we shall ultimately leave a European imprint on the final settlement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having been the President of the Europe­Israel delegation under Netanyahu, today, following the election of Ehud Barak, I wish to express how pleased I am to see the peace process under way again.
As we say in French, let us not deny ourselves this pleasure, let us salute Israeli democracy.
It has underlined the concern of Parliament and of the entire European Union to play a constructive role in the Middle East.
The honourable Lady who spoke on behalf of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Parties - we know one another from different pasts - referred to the importance of fair as well as open trade between the region and the European Union.
Mr Collins, speaking about halfway through our debate, said that he thought there was a more promising outlook in the Middle East.
The debate is closed.
Proposal by the Conference of Presidents on Parliament' s calendar of part-sessions for the year 2000 Madam President, I only got to see the Conference of Presidents' proposal for the European Parliament' s calendar of part-sessions for the Year 2000 once the deadline for submitting amendments had elapsed.
In view of the aforementioned considerations and the practical problems that may arise as a result of organising a part-session on what is actually an official holiday in many Member States, I would ask you, Madam President, to find a fitting solution.
On Amendment No 1 the Commission has always been of the opinion that renewable energy policy and policy on energy efficiency are intimately linked and must be closely coordinated, but we wonder if a charter on renewable energy is not premature.
We accept Amendments Nos 2, 7, 8 and 9 in principle, but we think they could be reformulated.
We can accept Amendment No 4 in principle although we do not believe this is a question of adding a third objective for the programme, but rather of clarifying its first objective.
Amendment No 5 is fully acceptable.
Having had the opportunity to consider this amendment we are now of the view that it should be rejected for two reasons.
Firstly, the ALTENER programme is open to participation from countries in line for accession.
Secondly, the amendment refers to a recital and makes no corresponding reference to the article in question, which is, I think, Article 7.
Thank you, Commissioner Patten.
There is another reason why we find them difficult to accept, and that is because they seek to make SAVE a legislative programme.
There is a clear need for complementarity in the fields of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
On Amendments Nos 5, 11, 12 and 13, we accept all of those in principle, subject to some rewording and I think the last two replace Nos 5 and 11.
Relating to Amendment 5 I thought this had been explained in plenary yesterday.
Amendment No 5 from the Commission was a commitology amendment and we reworded it.
So Amendment No 13 replaces Amendment No 5 and Amendment No 12 replaces Amendment No 11, on legal advice.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you can well imagine, this is neither the time nor the place to start a debate.
This motion for a resolution says in paragraph 15 in the Italian version that 'religious authorities are invited to cooperate fully in implementing prevention programmes and to participate constructively in the AIDS prevention scheme' .
This seems completely normal and reasonable.
I would like a clarification and, obviously, if the French and English versions prove to be correct, I will withdraw my signature from this proposal. (The Parliament adopted the resolution) Joint motion for resolution on Turkey Madam President, there are more problems as regards the different language versions of the text.
At any event, concerning the resolution on Turkey, an essential verb has been left out of the first paragraph of the Dutch language version.
Madam President, I have to comment on the same thing.
The difference between the "Vote, first section" and the "Vote, second section" is only that the words "to apply" should be added in the one instance and omitted in the other.
If the words "to apply" are missing, then this of course completely changes the meaning of the sentence, because it then reads as if Turkey is in fact eligible for membership.
I would only ask, Madam President, that we may have a separate vote on paragraph 7, because I have an oral amendment on it.
Finding it impossible to reduce the number of part-sessions, opponents to Strasbourg are now seeking to reduce the number of days in each part-session, achieving the same result by a different route.
But let us also take this opportunity to recall our position of principle on the Brussels mini-sessions.
I think two proposals relating to the calendar gave us an opportunity to improve both our working methods and our contact with the citizens.
Madam President, I have asked for the floor so that the Minutes will show that the five radical Members of Parliament present - Mrs Bonino, Mr Dell' Alba, Mr Della Vedova, Mr Dupuis and Mr Turco - have not taken part in the vote on the calendar for 2000 or in the following votes.
Mr President, I would first like to say that I am very happy about this vote on the calendar, not because of an administrative compromise, like Mr Berthu, but because I am convinced that only by fully using the working week can our capacity for work be maintained, that means not turning Thursday in to the last day of the week.
Secondly, it pleases me because I am of the opinion that Strasbourg is the autonomous, democratic and anti-centralist face of the European Parliament with significance as a symbol of Europe.
I am therefore, as a European, grateful for this vote and I would like to say very clearly that we must ensure that this is not now undermined in practice.
Europol personnel (C5-90 and C5-89/1999) - We voted against these two Council decisions regarding Europol employees on a point of principle.
The Europol Convention was passed in the national parliaments of Member States without any true debate.
The European Parliament - the only one of the EU institutions which is directly elected by the citizens - was also not consulted at any stage during the two years of negotiations on the Convention' s content.
In May 1997, EU justice ministers reached agreement on a protocol granting immunity from prosecution for Europol staff for any "words spoken or written or acts performed by them in the exercise of their official functions" and for unauthorised or incorrect processing of data.
In these circumstances, our national food safety agency in France, approved by the French Academy of Medicine, considered justifiably that France must maintain its embargo.
However, the fact remains that the governments of European countries, particularly the French Government, have put themselves in an impossible situation by adopting the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The new Article 95, modifying the former Article 100(A), prevents any Member State from implementing, on its own initiative, derogations to Community regulations in the field of public health, and force them to come and request the Commission for any derogations, justifying their case by presenting "new scientific proof".
Recommendation for second reading of the Langen report (A5-16/99) Mr President, in connection with the ALTENER programme, I would like to draw your close attention to the Nordic energy economy.
In fact, peat is a natural renewable resource whose cycle for regeneration is longer than that of wood.
It is only on this condition that the European Union will work in this direction.
With regard to SAVE II, the Council has accepted a number of the amendments proposed by the European Parliament at the first reading.
In addition, a number of amendments have taken into account the recent resolutions of the Council and the positions defended at the time of the Kyoto Conference.
With regard to Altener II, everyone acknowledges the importance of renewable energy sources in reducing pollution and conserving natural resources.
We also know of the problems such energies have in gaining ground on the market and the reasons for this state of affairs: traditional energy sources are available at a relatively low, stable price and there is a shortage of measures intended to promote renewable energy sources.
In the same vein, I feel it is essential to adopt the charter on renewable energy as soon as possible.
The vote on these two reports constitutes a pledge to the citizens of Europe of the will of the European Union to protect the environment while reducing our dependence on energy.
Recommendation for second reading of the Report by Mrs Ahern (A5-15/99) - The political benefit to mankind of genetic research is seriously eroded by vested interests, using the technology in a manner which is not compatible with sustainable development, and every often in conflict with acceptable ethical standards.
I believe both the EU and Member State Governments must further tighten and control the overall operation of the genetic research area and, in particular, the implementation of programmes that do not fully conform to established ethical, environmental and consumer guidelines.
Recommendation by Mrs Kinnock (A5-20/99) . (PT) This agreement with South Africa is part of Community policy on cooperation and development, which aims to guarantee vital solidarity with developing countries.
But we must analyse the economic and social consequences resulting from the liberalisation of trade for both contracting parties.
It would be a very positive thing if South Africa took steps to resolve the problem of its use of this designation, which is both unfair and illegal.
As a local representative, one of my first acts after being elected as Mayor of Saint-Benoît, in Réunion, was to name one of the city squares after Nelson Mandela.
And this agreement, whose signature we are approving, comes at the opportune moment to definitively consolidate the process of democratic transition and economic and social stability undertaken some years ago now by the Republic of South Africa.
It also puts the finishing touches to the implementation of the strategy of the Union with regard to this country, a strategy defined, let us remember, under the French presidency.
Finally, it is doubtless not without interest to note that the partnership thus cemented with this great nation of the south may contribute to the creation of synergy useful to the European Union within the framework of the delicate negotiations which are about to be opened within the WTO at the Seattle Conference in November.
It seems important to me, nonetheless, firstly to have an in-depth study made as soon as possible in order to determine as precisely as possible the possible impact of this agreement on the economy of Réunion, and secondly to establish a permanent mechanism for supervision, establishing the conditions for quick intervention.
Indeed, failure on our part to remain vigilant could have dramatic consequences for the society of Réunion, which is already seriously affected by unemployment (40% of the active population) and would be in total contradiction to the efforts of the European Union for many years, through the Structural Fund, to promote the economic and social development of the island.
In my own contribution during the debates, I personally addressed four questions to the Commission on this separate agreement on wines and spirits and, more specifically, on its Annex 10.
In conclusion, Mr President, I and the fellow members of my group are very worried about the evolution of these free trade agreements.
This infringement of international regulations, enshrined in an irresponsible fashion in an agreement which is binding upon the European Union, constitutes a dangerous precedent likely to be extended to other States, especially wine-producing countries (Latin America, Australasia, etc.) if they make such a request of the European Union.
Finally, Mr President, I am worried that we are proliferating preferential agreements, even before the opening of WTO negotiations, which will lead us to reconsider the concept of the most favoured nation clause.
Hence this country needs massive support, as the new government has shown how it is possible, in a European spirit, to ensure stability in one of the most dangerous regions of the world.
Martin (A5-17, 18, 19/99) . (FR) I am opposed to aid whose only objective is to re-establish a market economy, an economy of exploitation, which means that not one cent will go to the population who will continue to live in the same poverty.
Conference on AIDS . (FR) I am abstaining on the compromise resolution on AIDS.
The fact that the joint motion for resolution bears my name is an error.
In the world of the GATT and the European Union, you seem to be only just discovering that the values of sales and finance have taken over from politics.
And it is all the more necessary as the populations of our own countries are also endangered.
The resolution is at least a statement of our position on our relations with our great neighbour, and for Parliament not to have expressed itself upon this important subject would have been to have failed to shoulder its responsibility as an international parliament, and a sad sign that the policy of Fortress Europe is alive and carries more support than it deserves to inside this Assembly.
He declared that the Helsinki Council must grant Turkey candidate status and this country must subsequently be treated like any other candidate for accession.
For, although it seems necessary to us to associate Turkey to the Union in order to prevent an Islamist breakaway in this country, still its integration, pure and simple, into the structures of the Union in their present form, as the European Parliament has just requested, seems to us impossible.
It seems to us impossible to integrate into the superstate which is being formed a country which is so profoundly different, and which, in the very short term, will have the largest population and therefore, no doubt, also the greatest number of votes in the Council and the largest number of Members of Parliament in our House.
One wonders what Turkey would make of this power when we see the downright blackmail we were subjected to on the occasion of our invitation to them to participate in the European Conference.
In addition, it seems impossible to us to extend the area of free movement of citizens, which the countries of the Union today enjoy, to Turkey.
On the other hand, it ought to be possible to associate it to a Europe with a flexible shape, respecting national sovereignty and national boundaries.
Mr President, we cannot accept Turkey as a candidate for the European Union, because of its attitude of constantly denying the slightest recognition to the Kurdish people.
This morning, as usual, we have heard speakers from different groups of this House mentioning the Kurdish minority in Turkey.
The European Parliament ought to realise that there is no Kurdish minority in Kurdistan, just as there is no Basque minority in the Basque country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the process of enlargement of the European Union is the important theme of this legislature.
Against the background of this enlargement process, I voted against this resolution.
My second comment is that in Helsinki the Council will very probably include Turkey in the group of candidates for accession.
Mr President, I should like to warn our Turkish partner against thinking that all those who voted in favour of the resolution were friends of Turkey and all those who voted against were enemies of Turkey.
I am therefore of the opinion that we need honesty, we must tell the Turks that their dream of full membership is deluded, but everything up to that point must be tackled rapidly in the interests of stabilisation and bringing Turkey closer to European structures.
Mr President, I would like to make this statement on behalf of the EFA members of our group.
In any case, geopolitical factors are not sufficient reason for something as radical as full membership of the European Union.
But we believe that these questions need answering first.
Mr President, I would also like to say that I voted against the resolution on Turkey because it essentially adopts the proposal for granting Turkey candidate status in Helsinki.
Worse still, the resolution stipulates that the government and parliament of Turkey are making efforts towards democratisation, that they respect human rights and that progress is being made in these areas.
This is what leads me to say that if Turkey (still) indeed wishes to join the Union and not just to negotiate the most advantageous partnership with the best possible balance of power, serious discussions must be held on the basis of specific conditions: respect for democratic principles and for the rules governing human rights in the European Union; economic rapprochement and respect for the rules of healthy competition without dumping or disloyal manoeuvres; a fast democratic solution to the Kurdish question with "clear signs" at the earliest possible opportunity; the evacuation of military personnel from the occupied area of the Republic of Cyprus.
Today, Turkey seems to be on a more positive path, and we must therefore negotiate without reservations but without closing our eyes.
However, it must build on its recent reforms and ensure that full democracy, respect for human rights and the rights of minorities become the norm in Turkey.
Turkey must continue to improve its relations with Greece and work actively to find a solution to the Cyprus issue.
The Turkish Government' s efforts to find a political solution to the Kurdish question are encouraging.
It is also important to emphasise that the KLA must cease engaging in violence and terrorism in order to support a peaceful and political solution to the Kurdish question.
Middle East Peace Process . (FR) On the occasion of the debate and the vote on the resumption of the peace process in the Middle East, I wish to congratulate the Israeli and Palestinian partners on their courage and their tenacity.
I wish to assure my Israeli friends of our support on this course.
I hope that Europe will be capable of demonstrating intelligence and tolerance, in letting the negotiators get on with negotiations, and refraining from "preaching" every time there are one or several more or less serious problems.
Mr President, Members of Parliament, it is a generally recognised fact that the multilateral trading system has, over the last fifty years, guaranteed steady economic growth.
The new round on the liberalisation of trade is a necessary and natural extension of earlier achievements.
The EU has been pushing for a broad-based round of trade negotiations since 1996.
A round that is as broad-based as possible will guarantee a balanced end result, which will take account of the interests of all.
Unless we can convince other WTO Members of the advantages and benefits of a broad-based round, there is a danger that the talks will focus on agriculture alone, a matter in which the EU has important interests to defend.
We have to bear in mind that the EU objective of a broad-based round must fit in with both the United States' sector-based and internally structured agenda and its policy to reduce tariffs as well as more qualified positions on the less developed countries.
The industrialised countries must be able to offer the less developed countries concrete benefits rather than promises.
The Union is also in favour of a broad-based WTO round with regard to services.
The EU' s position in the talks will be improved commitment to services and a broadening of the existing commitments by sector and by country.
At the same time, we must ensure that the special needs of the less developed countries are taken account of and that they are accorded a certain degree of flexibility in the manner in which they adopt the new rules.
Sustainable development is the common objective of the Member countries mentioned in the WTO Agreement.
It is important for the Union to guarantee the future work of the WTO in the areas of trade and competition.
It is the objective of the country holding the Presidency that the draft conclusion of the Council should be approved in the General Affairs Council Monday.
The conclusions will be directed at the public at large, and they will reconfirm at the same time the common objectives of the EU to commence a round of negotiations that features different topic areas.
This delegation is visiting France as part of an exchange programme between the National Institute for Public Administration and the Ecole Nationale d' Administration in Paris.
Opening of the Millennium Round (continued) Mr President, Members of Parliament, those of you who requested the debate today on the subject of the Seattle Conference did not want, if I have understood correctly, an exchange of technical proposals but rather a political presentation.
Public opinion in our countries clearly feels that the liberalisation of trade - in which we hope to enter a new phase - is part of a greater movement, which invites questions and interrogations and in relation to which we must therefore adopt a stance.
In the Commission' s view, it is positive, for at least three reasons.
These are the advances which should make it possible to reconcile demographic growth and economic growth with a limited pool of natural resources, for it is technological progress which pushes back the frontier of the long-term use of these resources.
It was also the successes achieved, thanks to liberalisation of trade, by industrialised countries and emergent economies in Asia which shook the confidence of the communist regimes and led to their radical transformation both in Europe and in Asia.
Like a number of you, I can perceive the costs and the risks of free trade without regulations and without strong multilateral institutions to control it.
But if our role here is to reflect the concerns, the questions and the expectations of our fellow citizens in Europe, let us keep in mind the world-wide dimension of what is at stake, those of developing countries divided today between the hope of integration into the world economy and the fear of marginalisation.
You know the reasons which induced the Commission to propose a long agenda and a short schedule for Seattle to the Council and to your House.
Secondly, new subjects must be integrated into the WTO missions, subjects contributed by society, such as the environment, culture, health, food, and also competition and investment, henceforth an integral part of international trade.
Thirdly, the world economy needs direction, after the financial crises which emerging and transitional economies have experienced over the last two years.
In our position - as the Council President has just rightly mentioned - there is first and foremost the concern of the Union not to get caught up in the sectorial negotiation, enshrined in the conclusions of the Uruguay Round, concerned only with agriculture and services.
As regards agriculture, the orientations provided by the European Council in Berlin on Agenda 2000 give us a solid basis to achieve, in the field of liberalisation, progress which is compatible with the European agricultural model.
These regulations concern investment and competition primarily, two areas where some of our partners show a certain reluctance, for very different reasons, and which, given the precedent of the MAI - I prefer to spell it out A.M.I. (rather than call it friend "AMI" ) in French - give rise to reservations on the part of some developing countries and reluctance, even outright hostility, in some of our non-governmental organisations.
Allow me to expand briefly on these two subjects.
With internationalisation, the concentration of economic power and the extra-territorial impact of decisions taken on competition policy by states, competition presents all economies with challenges.
But for developing countries the stakes are even more formidable.
The inclusion of competition on the WTO agenda is not intended to transform the WTO into a world authority on competition but simply to establish a body of principles and procedures intended to promote the implementation of internal competition policies and to make them mutually compatible.
Let us look at three more subjects, protection of the environment, consumer health and the audio-visual sector which, beyond the tensions between technical progress and cultural traditions, refer back to the features of civilisation which characterise Europe - the demand for quality, food quality, for example, cultural identity in an open world, the preference for the non-commercial in a number of areas.
The European Union has undertaken to define policies for the protection of the environment, health and food safety.
Indeed yesterday, right here, Romano Prodi committed the Commission to a fundamental revision of food legislation by 2002.
With the new round, we must, on the one hand, prevent any abuse of these gaps and differences with a protectionist purpose and, on the other hand, stop leaving the arbitration between competitive national standards to market forces.
European opinion also considers it necessary to reinforce the capacity for artistic creation within the audio-visual media, a key sector in our culture, and the Union must respond to this expectation.
I come finally to the issues which most polarise opinion today and our Member States' Governments, to wit, the link between commercial liberalisation and the progress in the fundamental rights of workers.
For the European Union, it is evident that these objectives are not only compatible but also, in our experience, deeply coherent.
In Europe, the return to free trade since the post-war period has been accompanied by social progress in which the relations between productivity and collective negotiation have been the two main driving forces.
Firstly, because the chief target of this new round of negotiations is indeed sustainable development and this is primarily of concern to developing countries.
Next, because, in order to achieve our own objectives within this round, we need the consensus of all our partners and, of course, of developing countries.
But it is self-evident that this round must be included in the wider context of global government.
If the response from the Council and from Parliament is positive, our negotiating position will be stronger.
Once again I undertake, on behalf of the Commission, to pursue this dialogue with you, on an ongoing basis, in the months and years to come.
Mr Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the development of world trade in the last 50 years is a success story.
Increased prosperity and the creation of jobs in Europe are an important consequence of this.
Freer and fairer world trade within the framework of a strengthened multilateral world trade system formed a successful foundation for this.
A comprehensive European Union Strategy, which embraces all the areas concerned in a dynamic way is being proposed by the Commission and, I feel I can already say this as a rapporteur, is widely supported within the European Parliament.
Labour standards should be taken into account more in the world trade system, and our markets must be opened more to developing countries.
There are still, however, some outstanding questions regarding the cooperation between the Council and the Commission, on the one hand, and with the European Parliament, on the other hand, within the scope of the Millennium Round.
It will represent its position within the framework of its resolution, which will certainly be adopted in November, in an energetically coherent but also responsible manner.
You can assume, Mr Sasi, as President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Lamy, as Commissioner, that in the position determined in our November resolution we will present ourselves as energetic and coherent both to you and to our partners in the Millennium Round.
We shall strive thereby to be true to our responsibility as the elected representatives of the peoples of Europe.
We are therefore somewhat concerned to hear rumours that in the Council, even before the start of negotiations, some delegations are now ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about some fundamental aspects of the Millennium Round which my party considers to be important.
The new round of World Trade negotiations which will open in Seattle on 30 November, offers the opportunity to partially extend the blueprint for world trade, in some fundamental aspects.
What we need is a new sense of direction, which leads to a reconciliation of trade and social components, without thereby setting up new barriers of discrimination by means of a concealed form of protectionism.
We therefore have to ensure that social and employment standards, standards for health and food as well as env0ironmental considerations form an essential part of the negotiating package.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists particularly supports the Commission' s attempt to combine the concepts of globalisation and sustainable development.
Comprehensive information and transparency are necessary to win the public' s confidence in and agreement with the new negotiating rounds.
Only by combining transparency, the involvement of the public and official, extensive means... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to signal our strong support for the efforts of both the European Commission and the Council to persuade our international partners of the virtues of a broad-based new round of WTO talks, covering a wide range of issues.
In order that the right compromises can be made between the different and complex issues facing the international trade system today it does indeed seem essential that the talks should cover a comprehensive agenda from traditional tariff reductions to crucial issues such as the environment and labour standards, and new topics such as competition and investment.
However, if the European Parliament is to play a new and more responsible role it must be given greater access to the information governing trade issues than is presently the case.
For that reason I would like to ask the Council two specific questions.
Since Mr Sasi has kindly agreed to come to the meeting of the European Parliament' s Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 12 October, I suggest he presents his formal response to both these points at that meeting.
Mr President, I believe that the question that concerns all of us here is not whether or not multilateral rules are necessary to provide a framework for world trade.
The problem, in my view, is to know whether the World Trade Organisation is functioning on the basis of rules which are equitable and able to help the world, and not just Europe, to progress towards sustainable development.
The replies that I have heard from the Council especially, and to a lesser extent from Commissioner Lamy, make me think that it is begging the question.
As for foreign policy, I think we should insist on the fact that we do not only have commercial commitments, but we are also bound by multilateral agreements on the environment and international conventions on respect for human rights and that these commitments, in my opinion, an opinion which I believe is shared by many colleagues, have a value on both an ethical and a political level which is more important than free trade.
These are two examples of the basic principles of this organisation which go against the objectives which we are trying to defend.
In conclusion, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we believe that an evaluation prior to any expansion of the competences of the WTO is essential and that, otherwise, we are doing nothing more than applying a liberalist ideology.
This wave of liberalisation is clearly justified in the name of the general interest and employment, as you stated, Mr Lamy, in your hearing, indicating that the progressive opening up of markets, both for goods and for services, is in the interest of the Community.
Yesterday and today, the employees of Michelin have been here, in this Parliament building, to dramatically illustrate this idea which governs relationships on a European and world scale.
I do not believe that the choice is between liberalisation and protectionism.
With my group I have taken the initiative to organise an open meeting on these matters during next November' s part-session.
Many people expect the European Union to stand up in these negotiations for the values of cooperation, solidarity and the pre-eminence of human beings, as against financial values and the dictates of the market.
Mr President of the Council, Mr President, Commissioner, the communication of the Commission to the national parliaments is extremely revealing with regard to the profoundly antidemocratic workings of the main European institution and of the conditions under which the new round of multilateral trade negotiations will be approached.
According to the OECD report, the average annual growth rate of OECD countries was +5.2% between 1961 and 1969, +3.9% between 1970 and 1979, +2.6% between 1980 and 1989 and +2.1% between 1990 and 1996.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens understand only too well that the agreements resulting from the Millennium Round will seriously affect their personal and professional lives.
The Uruguay Round offered producers and consumers a fait accompli.
The current situation shows that we are liable to incur retaliatory measures, while we simply intend to protect ... (T he President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioner, international trade and a new international division of labour are a major resource in terms of economic growth and freedom for the 6 billion plus human beings who are now crowding the planet.
I think that this protectionism which is felt in Europe - in France and Italy - is completely out of place and obsolete.
I would like to contribute to this debate by making three remarks of the following nature - general, specific and political.
From the outset we should be in support of this round, we should have a positive outlook to ensure that we can avoid protectionism, promote free trade and extend prosperity in the world system to other parts of the world.
Might I say too, in terms of the general debate, that the communication of the Commission has indeed laid down four major principles for the Agenda of the round which we fully support in my Group.
It may be, Mr Commissioner, that the Commission together with the US administration could come up with some kind of Green Paper sketching out where the differences are and where the common interests are between America and Europe because as you know, in your previous role, unless America and Europe agree on the major outlines in an international round such as this, we will never conclude.
And therefore, maybe an informal document such as this would be useful for Seattle.
Lastly, of a political nature, there are a number of networks and non-governmental organisations now which are indeed in favour of world trade and would like to take a responsible part in these negotiations.
There are others, which are much less responsible, more militant in nature and likely to be present in Seattle.
The three institutions of the European Union must cooperate and it would be very interesting to have the both the Council' s and the Commission' s view on the need to have a strong European parliamentary presence in these negotiations.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Erika Mann has given a good - if rather brief - summary of the Group of the Party of European Socialists' current position on the Millennium Round, so I shall not dwell on it any further.
These are, to be precise, the need to include our citizens in this important exercise, and to deal with their legitimate concerns.
It is a question above all, of ensuring that the problems that this round poses for our citizens can reach the European Union' s negotiator at all times, as we have seen from what previous speakers have said, as well as the solutions that these citizens expect of the negotiators.
And these demands will have all the more force if Parliament presents a united front with the Commission and with the Council.
On the other hand, our society has legitimate concerns about the challenges that the phenomenon of globalisation poses for us: respect for human rights and of fundamental social liberties, the protection of the environment and the preservation of nature, as well as the protection of our consumers' health.
My question to the Council and to the Commission is this: how can we reconcile these two apparently contradictory issues?
Europe wants to practise a social and sustainable agricultural policy and, above all, produce food which is pure and of good quality.
Regional food chains would help us to monitor the quality of food in the best way.
That is why better conditions for entering the market must be obtained for developing countries and at the same time, all export subsidies for farm products from the EU should be withdrawn.
The recognition of safeguarding food as a 'non trade concern' according to Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture must also be accepted.
The Commission should not accept a mandate for negotiation which goes against human rights, social rights and the environment.
We realise that times have changed radically, and that awareness accompanied by protests is spreading across the world and that the slogan 'what is good for big business is good for the world at large' is no longer shouted from the rooftops.
For developing countries, this must mean free access for all goods, compensation for rising prices for basic foods, exemptions from the TRIPS agreements and a situation in which the EU removes the subsidies which result in unfair competition, especially in connection with agricultural products.
Mr President, this new round of negotiations poses a question of principle, a question of method and a question of content.
On the other hand, the GATT has been signed and there are still 18 million unemployed people in Europe.
It is basically as if in Seattle on 30 November the Church of Globology was going to meet.
This is because in France the sickle has revolted against MacDonalds and the Millennium has come out of hiding.
The question of services, audiovisual, social and environmental questions, developing countries and, of course the agricultural question, with the risk that Europe will behave like Bambi and Walt Disney.
Mr Lamy, you have not even mentioned the term "Community preference" , hence our reservations regarding this round.
Bearing this in mind, the European Union will not be able to accept any measure that might put it in jeopardy.
Secondly, the European Union can only consent to enter into negotiations on the issue of agriculture if it is made clear that free trade is inseparable from fair trade.
In this respect, we should make it clear that anything that can be done to inform, sensitise and mobilise public opinion, will strengthen the determination of our negotiators in the eyes of the Cairns Group, the United States and developing countries.
We can already see that the pressure of our civil society can have contagious effects in our competitors' camp.
For us Europeans, the aim of this globalisation should consist of reconciling economic competitiveness with a global development which is more balanced, more durable and better distributed especially between North and South.
With regard to agriculture, we should establish a system for trade in agricultural products which is fair, based on the market certainly, but also on more general considerations such as public health, the environment, employment and balance between territories.
Finally, a wish and, in any case, a will.
We must always work alongside the Commission, but also see to it that the Parliament is not just a ratification Chamber, but may make its point of view count.
Mr President, as stated in the introduction to the Commission' s report on the draft communication to the Council and the European Parliament, in public opinion today, there is, fortunately, growing concern, engendering much debate, about the impact of the liberalisation of trade on employment, on the distribution of wealth, on the environment, on health, consumer protection and cultural diversity, as well as the increased marginalisation of poor countries.
These concerns are shared and (...) by our group.
If there is one thing then that I would call for, in the short time I have left, I would wish that this Parliament, across all Parties, guarantees this openness to the public, and that there is transparency and intensive discussion.
I think there are two things which will achieve this.
Secondly, throughout these talks we will be very much in the public eye.
Finally, I am pleased to hear the Commission and the Council mention the needs of the developing world.
It is very important that we give them more than warm words as we enter the new millennium.
These should be given special consideration in the Millennium Round negotiations so that the decisions taken in Seattle safeguard their agricultural interests and guarantee their cultural, economic and environmental survival, particularly after the Cologne Summit.
This is why it would be useful to remind the Council and the Commission of the problems these regions face, and to make another of the negotiations' aims safeguarding the... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned by the statements on the so-called Millennium Round.
This is a very dangerous road to go down, as the consequences of applying the WTO rules have shown, causing as they did, an increase in social inequality, unemployment, and world poverty.
Mr President, yesterday we held a debate here on the strengthening of food safety in Europe, while conflicts on the precautionary principle are taking place within the Union and in parallel, the Americans are pursuing unjustified retaliations.
Finally could you tell us whether you consider that the conclusions of the Berlin Council on the reform of the CAP are an inviolable basic element in your eyes or whether they are under threat in the new negotiations?
We must make the whole World Trade Organisation more open, more democratic and more transparent and we must ensure that the whole contract underlying it can be subjected, as you yourself say, to a study on its environmental acceptability.
Mr President, a great many people are concerned about the social consequences of a new wave of trade liberalisation.
These fears must be taken into account and must appear in the agenda of the Millennium Round negotiations.
In 1994, in Marrakech, and in Singapore, in 1996, we were unable to convince many developing countries of the validity of our concerns because we presented them in the form of a social clause.
Last year, the Member States of the ILO - and amongst them our own countries - adopted a declaration on the principles and fundamental rights relating to work.
We all undertook to respect the principles which create a genuine social dynamic in each country.
Not to assist for the sake of assisting, but to assist so that the commitments may be met.
To this end we must ensure that there is suitable and effective cooperation between the ILO and the WTO.
We must finally give substance to the agreement reached in Singapore on the cooperation between the secretariats of the two organisations, in order to guarantee the positive implementation of the declaration.
If we are willing to help our partners to build with us genuine world-wide social foundations, we must tell them what efforts we are willing make to this end.
A more attractive incentive system involving preferences and a programme of specific and generous cooperation may contribute to this.
A clear and strong sign in this direction on the part of the Commission and our governments must be prepared and announced in Seattle.
Developing international trade means making a substantial contribution to European economic growth, which the countries of the Community really need.
The tried and tested European Model must be maintained, with, for example, our high environmental standards and consumer protection, including our socio-economic measures.
Each measure that weakens our European fish-processing industry means large-scale job losses, mostly in regions which already lack infrastructure.
Mr President, even if the European Community is a passionate advocate of the new round of negotiations within the framework of the WTO, in the course of what will probably be the last big push for liberalisation, we should not ignore social issues.
It cannot make sense to have a policy of increasing our prosperity while making poor people poorer.
With European integration, the EU has grown into a major global influence on the economy, for which only a broad-based round of negotiations will make it possible to ensure steady economic growth.
It would appear that this long and detailed document is currently under discussion in the Council and between the Council and the Commission.
Not all services can be put on the same level.
For us, for example, human health is not a piece of merchandise.
This is one choice, but it is not ours and we do not want a situation where tomorrow, in Europe, the inclusion of services in the scope of the WTO leads to the rules of competition and market openness being applied to sectors such as health and education.
This would mean changing from a market economy to a market society.
The best guarantee for our public services is to place them clearly, and from the outset, outside the scope of the negotiations, as has happened in the case of the cultural exception.
Mr President, in today' s Financial Times the Secretary-General of UNCTAD reiterated that there remains persistent bias against developing countries in the multilateral trading system.
They have not, for instance, seen the benefits for their textile and clothing industries, neither have they seen benefits from the liberalisation of trade in farm products.
They are saying that market access alone is not going to be a panacea enabling them to achieve competitiveness and integration into the global economy.
It is also necessary to see the elimination of agricultural export subsidies and a new WTO clause to cover the need for food security in developing countries.
Trade in recent decades has decreased by an average of 6% per year, service exports stand at 9% and foreign direct investments are at about 12%.
Our number one aim, which is full employment in Europe, requires an improvement in our competitiveness and is being decisively formed by these developments.
Secondly, telecommunications.
But there is also a need for transparency in this area.
Liberalisation is a prime example of a job creator.
The effective implementation of this agreement should safeguard the equality of status between material and intellectual property.
This role must be focused on making a positive contribution during the negotiations.
A contribution that has due respect both for trade interests and the interests of citizens.
We must succeed in having the best of both worlds, even when it comes to the sensitive area of consumer and environmental protection.
The political question is always about the division of responsibilities between the WTO, the European Union, national governments and the consumer.
Many conflicts over environmental and consumer protection could be avoided by the effective application of the precautionary principle.
It must contribute towards developing a type of administrative interdependence for interdependent national economies, and it must also contribute to a global concept of economic management.
When the Uruguay Round ended in Marrakech, the World Trade Organisation brought in a compulsory system of settlement of disputes, but the procedure they used was one inherited from the old General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
The result of this is that now, the European Community is handing over to an international organisation its obligation to find a solution to its international disputes with no guarantee that it will be treated with sufficient impartiality.
For example, the first dispute about bananas was resolved by a panel, that is a group of experts, presided over by a former American senator, when the plaintiff was the United States of America.
I think our deliberations today have been very much about the key issues of environment and agriculture and also the social clause issue, but I want to bring to your attention the specific needs of the cultural industries and the audiovisual sector.
I want to use the opportunity of the Commissioner' s presence here today to propose - in the light of the exemptions we already have in the European Union for the audiovisual industries, which give us room for manoeuvre, which give us also the ability to evolve with the industry and to make a gesture in the direction of an even playing field vis-à-vis the US - that, in constructing the infrastructure for the negotiations, we should be flexible enough to accommodate our needs here in Europe.
At the same time, I also recognise that we need a negotiating arena that is both robust and realistic.
So I would advocate that, in terms of our position here in Europe, we need to ensure that our industries move forward in a way auspicious to achieving the potential that they undoubtedly possess.
In addition, it offers the opportunity for economic transparency, and it can be clearly shown that in open economies, democracy and human rights fare better.
But these incentives can be created outside the information system, for example, for the World Bank system and elsewhere, where they can function effectively.
When transparency and democracy is spoken of in the WTO, I would like to remind you that decisions are taken unanimously in the WTO.
In questions of agriculture, the fundamental principle will obviously be the Agenda 2000 solution that we achieved, and that solution has to be defended.
I do not intend to touch on all the subjects which we have debated, but I would simply like to thank the speakers - or at least most of them - for their support and to reply to some specific points or some of the questions posed by the speakers.
Let us remember however, between ourselves, that, on the whole, the results of the application of the mechanisms put in place after Marrakech are absolutely correct from the Union' s point of view, with regard to the relationship between the number of cases we brought against other parties and the number of cases brought against us, between the cases won and the cases lost.
With regard to the interpretation of the European Council of Berlin, which has, on this point, expressed its agreement on what has been called Agenda 2000, I have said, and I repeat, that it seems to me to be a good basis for discussion.
With regard to the possibility of developing countries gaining access to the techniques of commercial liberalisation, to the WTO and its panels etc, it is true, as has been said, that this poses a problem, that this objective is not yet within the range of many of them and that the use of these complex mechanisms is reserved for those who have the means, hence our proposal of technical assistance (which is furthermore mentioned in the Commission' s document), so that these countries may themselves possess and use the necessary legal technology.
As for the problems of health and education, we do not think, we do not foresee and we do not wish to call into question the public policy objectives in these areas within the proposals on the liberalisation of services in the next round.
Finally, with regard to the representation of the European Parliament, I have already said, and I repeat, that the Commission is absolutely clear on this issue.
We believe that to have the Members of the European Parliament, who are so well informed, by our side, in a negotiation of this type, is a trump card for us and hence for the Union.
The debate is closed.
Climate change The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the forthcoming global conference on climate change, from 25 October to 5 November 1999 in Bonn: implementation of the Kyoto Convention.
It did the same when the Kyoto Protocol was signed in 1997.
Emissions have increased dramatically in recent years, especially within the transport sector.
It is important that the EU is expected to be able to stabilise its emissions of greenhouse gases at the 1990 level by the year 2000, but that is not enough.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already stated during the European Parliament' s hearings, combating climate change is one of my most important priorities.
I shall be proposing the measures required to achieve results in this area.
Firstly: if we are to be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need to adopt a strategy which includes concrete measures in different areas.
The object, of course, is to reap the benefits of cooperation and to try to reach a consensus on practical measures which the Commission can propose to the Council and Parliament.
An important part of these measures will be to spread knowledge and make better use of the enormous advantages which new technology offers.
Secondly: I intend, during the spring of 2000, to present a Green Paper on the trade in emission rights within the EU.
I am thinking mainly of sectors such as the energy, transportation and industrial sectors.
We must therefore make sure that the integration strategy which was adopted in Cardiff in June 1998 produces results.
I am thinking, for example, of the efforts which Mr Bolkestein, has made to remove obstacles to the negotiations concerning the proposed energy tax.
I note that the European Parliament is in fact in favour of using the flexibility clause in the Amsterdam Treaty.
This clause in fact enables a number of Member States to move forward in this area.
I shall therefore be discussing with Mrs Loyola de Palacio how to reach the goal of doubling the use of renewable energy sources and also improving energy efficiency.
We need your full support in order to achieve rapid results in this area.
I want to say that I fully share Parliament' s view that we must all provide intelligible and easily accessible information to make it easier for citizens of the European Union to play an active role in this work.
This ought to be ratified as soon as possible after the Sixth Party Summit to the UN' s framework convention on climate change.
However, that being said, I welcome the remarks by the President-in-Office and by the Commissioner and, if I may do so in my humble position, I would like to congratulate her on her maiden speech.
We are glad there is going to be an action programme coming forward in the spring and a Green Paper on emissions trading.
When we had our debate in the hearing with the Commissioner about a month or so ago, my committee, the Committee on the Environment, was really rather in two minds as to whether it wanted to see emissions trading measures put forward, but it is worth our while to explore that line.
We need to produce an action programme to enable the European Union to live up to what it signed up to in Kyoto.
We would like to highlight - and we have highlighted in our resolution - the need for action, particularly in the air transport sector.
Hence my request: could you please confirm that you do not support any agreement which allows more than 50% emissions trading to take place outside one' s own country.
The Council on the other hand, was informed and will make its decision on this on 12 October, but we have been cut out of the loop.
The second point I want to raise is precisely the point that Mr Lange raised in the matter of trade in emission rights.
I would have been interested to hear the opinions of the Member of the Commission and the President-in-Office on how a common energy tax would evolve, as, without one, the European Union will be unable to fulfil its objectives.
The first point is that we must come up with a carbon dioxide levy, that is to say, a tax on greenhouse gases.
The third point concerns aviation fuel.
It is a matter of urgency that agreement be reached on the international taxation of aviation fuel.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Minister Hassi and Commissioner Wallström for their inspiring statements.
According to a report by IPCC, there will need to be a 35% reduction in CO2 emissions between now and 2010 if temperatures and the rise in sea level are to be kept within the necessary limits.
Ratifying the Kyoto Protocol is not, in fact, something Parliament has to do, but neither can we allow a situation to develop in which laxness on the part of the Member States means there is no ratification whatsoever.
The question of energy efficiency is in fact also dealt with in paragraph 11 in the motion for a resolution.
The current trend in all the Western societies of the European Union and throughout humanity is in irreconcilable conflict with the economics of nature.
The new technology will help us to adapt our own economy to that of nature, but it also creates new problems and risks all the time.
Firstly, the European Union must continue to lead the way at the meeting which will take place in Bonn from the 25th of the month and, if necessary, it would be very useful to suggest a unilateral reduction, which was initially envisaged as 15%.
Secondly, we also feel that it is essential that the Kyoto Protocol be ratified.
I think that it is scandalous that 84 countries signed it and yet only 12, mostly small islands, have ratified it.
Mr President, I welcome many of the things our Commissioner has been saying and is proposing to do.
We all want to see greenhouse gas emissions reduced and my amendment is not a judgment on energy taxes, but it is seeking to help us make informed decisions on any proposals for such taxes.
The EU and the Member States should therefore stick to their goal of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases by 15% by the year 2010 and might well go further than that in the slightly longer term.
You can certainly do that as a way of wangling lower environmental requirements for yourself, but you cannot cheat with regard to the actual effects of climate changes.
If we lower that 50% level, then I think we should be considerably impairing the EU' s policy on climate change and also greatly reducing the EU' s credibility in continued negotiations on the subject.
Mr President, Commissioner, I support the joint resolution submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and unlike others in my Party, I also support the section which deals with an CO2 energy tax.
I will give the example of the stand-by switch which is taken up in paragraph 9 of the motion for resolution which I proposed.
Between five and ten per cent of the European Union' s energy consumption is wasted because we do not switch off our televisions and other electrical appliances, but leave them on stand-by.
Nor should we discuss only CO2, because if my information is correct, 50% of the greenhouse effect is caused by other greenhouse gases.
On climate change itself, I would like to express my fear that this issue is being continually pushed into the background, as something which is of less and less interest to the public and to politicians.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that now, all of us in Parliament agree on the need to tackle the problem of climate change rigorously, not just in order to fulfil a commitment made by the European Parliament but also because of the undeniable world-wide importance of this issue.
Nevertheless, we feel that in order to succeed in this task, we must avoid various topics which crop up on a regular basis in discussions on the subject and we should avoid including them in the text of the resolution.
The first approach that we have to avoid is to think that economic development inevitably brings with it an increase in the deterioration of the environment.
It is possible to neutralise to a large extent this undesirable effect of growth by making our resources more efficient.
The second topic concerns the way global problems are dealt with as local issues.
This is the only way we will be able to accept adopting measures which will certainly be difficult and economically damaging for various European Union countries, as well as for some of those mentioned in the motion for resolution.
For this reason, and before the measures are adopted as standard for energy, we would have to ensure the adoption of this strategic action, as well as the reliability of the means of production of gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect, so that we can efficiently monitor the development of the problem in all countries.
Mr President, now that we have discussed the question of world-wide negotiations in great detail, of course we have to optimise our own strategy.
I am very concerned that the Irish Government is complacent in its attitude towards its Kyoto Protocol commitments, which they entered into in December 1997.
We are committed to limiting the emissions of greenhouse gases to 13% above our 1990 levels by the year 2010 or so.
It is a net reduction in emissions we want globally, not just exporting the problem from the West to the less developed regions.
Many Members spoke of the need for financial controls and an energy tax.
The Kyoto Protocol and the climate agreement also states that if a combined body of economic cooperation such as the EU cannot achieve the targets as a whole, responsibility for the targets set for it falls to all its Member States, in other words, if some Member States cannot meet their commitments, the Union will suffer as a whole.
Before the end of the year, we are to present a Green Paper describing a system for trade in emission rights (one of the flexible mechanisms).
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Mrs Breyer, in this kind of debate, even the omissions are respected.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
We shall look at the questions put to the Council.
Mr President, the Council is very sorry to hear about the earthquake in Greece, and would like to convey its deepest sympathy to the Greek nation with regard to the widespread damage this natural disaster has caused.
What I mean Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that as far as the Autonomous Regions in Objective 1 are concerned, the Spanish state, in spite of the competences held by these Regions, is reserving 55% of revenues which go to the Spanish State for centralised policies which do not apply in general to the Autonomous Regions in Objective 1.
For example, in my country, Galicia, which is part of Objective 1 and which should therefore receive proportionally around 12% of the revenues going to the Spanish state, received only 5% in the period 1994-1999.
In this way, Galicia differs from Portugal and Ireland, both countries in Objective 1 who have achieved extraordinary development, which has unfortunately not taken place in my country, Galicia.
In other countries, the State does not appropriate 50 or 55% of the Structural Fund money.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it was my understanding that Spain, just like other countries which receive Structural Funds for Objective 1 regions was applying these funds according to criteria which accord perfectly with the regulations of these Funds.
Despite all that, Mr Nogueira, now has the floor in order to make a procedural motion, but it must be a genuine procedural motion.
This is not a debate on nationalities and regions in the Spanish Parliament.
That is the reason why, during the Finnish Presidency, the Council is expected to take decisions with a view to achieving this and why the Council welcomes the Commission' s intention to submit a proposal as soon as possible for a new action programme designed to promote equality between women and men and to ensure that this can be implemented when the present action programme comes to an end.
The Finnish Presidency has prepared an initial report on women' s participation in the decision-making process.
Finland has proposed that the Council should clarify its intention to continue, during the forthcoming presidencies, to develop indicators and benchmarking for other critical areas specified in the Peking Conference' s action programme and to undertake regularly to examine progress in the areas under discussion.
Thank you for your answer.
The Council cannot yet therefore take up a position on this question.
However, my question to the Council is: does the Council not believe that the European Institutions themselves have a duty to lead by example on the issue of equality, and is it happy about the existing staff quality of the Institutions?
When it comes to the quantity of confiscated drugs, a number of Member States combine different kinds of drugs in their statistics while other countries divide the information according to criteria which are not necessarily the same from one State to another.
The EDMC has now undertaken to devise a common method for compiling statistics.
Mr President, I am rather astonished by the reply of the Presidency of the Council, insofar as we are all in agreement with regard to the need for statistics.
The European Parliament has restated this in a resolution, and as the President of the Council has reminded us.
There is a working party with the Retox network, and according to the response of the Presidency of the Council, we still do not know when we will have the joint statistics.
I believe that this is really important because we have fifteen national policies which are all absolutely disastrous in the field of drugs.
It is therefore urgent that the European citizens understand that the increase in resources allocated to the fight against drugs corresponds directly to the increase in the consumption of drugs and that therefore the policies that have been pursued are a complete failure.
Union Heads of State and Government also said they intended to grant the European Union the means and facilities to deal with the job of creating a common European security and defence policy.
At the European Council in Cologne the Union' s readiness to prevent a conflict and manage a crisis was discussed.
I would ask the Minister how the country holding the Presidency is preparing for the adoption of the practice of qualified majority voting in the areas of foreign and security policy and defence policy.
Preparations are still in hand, and it is impossible to say yet whether it will extend to foreign and security policy, but if we consider the history of preparatory work for a moment, it has to be said that taking binding decisions based on a qualified majority, for example in matters of defence, is not very likely to come about, at least very quickly.
Mr President, the Council considers the protection of fundamental rights to be very important.
As Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union states, the Union is based on the principles of freedom and democracy, the respect for fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law.
The same Article states that the Union respects fundamental rights as a general principle of Community law.
Europe has always been at the forefront in the protection of human rights, coexistence and tolerance, which have made this territory the most advanced in social terms, and we cannot allow ourselves to go back on these achievements of liberty, tolerance and coexistence.
Having said this, and considering that we are now at a historic moment in European construction, with the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, with a debate on a Charter of Fundamental Rights about to take place, and considering also the powers conferred on the Council by the Treaties in order that it carries out action which guarantees these rights of European citizens, I would like to know what the Council' s attitude is on the contents of this Charter of Fundamental Rights concerning the protection of sexual freedom and sexual choice rather than sexual guidelines.
Attitudes can also be influenced through action in the areas of cultural policy and social policy.
It has to be said that all sectors of society must try to cooperate so that the climate in all European States is as tolerant as possible.
Only when we have determined this can we begin the process of implementing Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We must act and act swiftly or else this House and all its institutions will always be held in low regard.
Mr President, I would like to say that we really have a proper legislative basis insofar as all Member States of the European Union are parties to the Council of Europe' s Convention on Human Rights.
Audits of the situation in the various Member States can of course be made, but I believe the primary responsibility in this matter lies totally with each Member State and its political decision makers themselves.
Maybe it was a very interesting question for him, but in this case he must ask a question like the other Members of this House.
Question No 7 by (H-0480/99): Subject: Denmark's share in the capital of the ECB Will the Council state what Denmark's share in the ECB's capital has to be, as a percentage and as an actual sum, if Denmark wishes to play a full part in EMU?
Mr President, under Article 28 of the European Central Bank Statute, the ECB' s paid-up capital amounts to EUR 5 billion.
Member States outside of the euro area pay, according to Article 48 of the Statute, only a minimum percentage of the share of entered capital to share in the operational costs of the ECB, if the General Council of the ECB so decides.
On the basis of the Article in question, central banks outside the euro area had to pay a share of the ECB' s operational costs, which was 5% of the share of the entered capital.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we all agree that the element of control is essential to guaranteeing a sustainable level of fishing.
To this end, the Council, and the Commission, Mr President, adopted in 1998, with this aim of conserving our resources, a decision on the progressive disappearance of drift-nets also known as volantas.
I ask the President in Office of the Council to be explicit, to use words I can understand, not bureaucratic ones, and I ask him to assess what view the Council should take on the referendum on the Law of Civil Concord held recently in Algeria.
Question No 10 by (H-0488/99): Subject: Agreement with Croatia What progress has been reached with preparations for the conclusion of a trade and cooperation agreement with Croatia and the release of PHARE funds?
The countries in question are aware of the criteria they have to meet, and the sectors in which the Union hopes progress will be made.
In connection with the last review, carried out on 21 June 1999, the Council found that political dialogue between the Croatian Government and the opposition had improved over the previous six-month period.
The Council also considered that the government had not begun proper information campaigns on the rights of the people who wish to return.
But many people who were driven out have now returned, and democracy there is very highly developed.
My question is: do you not want to take this step at last?
Mr President, I wish to say that the same criteria apply to all countries.
The Council attaches a very great deal of weight to protecting fundamental rights.
According to Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union, the European Union is founded upon a number of principles common to the Member States, namely the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, together with the fundamental freedoms and the principle of the constitutional state.
It is specified in the same Article that the fundamental rights are to be respected by the European Union as general principles for Community law.
In accordance with the codecision procedure, the Council, together with the European Parliament, therefore assumed on 28 June 1999 a common position on the adoption of a decision to establish a uniform instrument for financing cultural cooperation and for planning programmes for such cooperation.
Thank you for your answer.
I should like to ask if the Council considers that this perversion of local democracy is compatible with the European Union' s fundamental values.
Where our fundamental values are concerned, it may indeed in this case be said that the rights which ought to apply throughout the European Union have not been properly respected.
In the end, however, it is always a matter for the individual nation state to guarantee that human rights and other fundamental rights are guaranteed in that country.
Question No 13 by (H-0499/99): Subject: Peripheral island regions Will the Council, under the Finnish Presidency, outline its policies towards peripheral Objective I and II island regions in relation to infrastructure, agricultural and employment policies?
The economic and social situations of the EU' s peripheral and island regions vary considerably.
Export costs and excess costs to the market put these regions at a major disadvantage.
I would like to know what commitment the President-in-Office intends to show to ensure that EU policies will always give special priority to assisting peripheral and island regions, including those regions on the Atlantic coast.
Question No 14 by (H-0501/99): Subject: Duty free Will the Council outline its strategy aimed at assisting Irish airports, ports, airlines and passenger shipping companies in their efforts to overcome the loss of income resulting from the ending of duty-free and how does it intend to safeguard consumers against higher fares, protect and enhance employment and support vital infrastructure developments which, in the past, were made possible by sales of duty-free goods?
However, the Council decided in 1992 to keep the situation with regard to duty-free shops unchanged for a temporary period ending in June 1999.
As the author is not present, Question No 15 lapses.
Within these frameworks the Council can now implement measures to promote cooperation between Member States.
However, there is a very firm majority in Parliament who are in favour of a European involvement, not just in the exchange of best practices or the cooperation procedures, which we agree with, but also in utilising some of the previous programmes which existed in the past; in particular the Poverty I and Poverty II programmes and the way that they dealt with the problems using a bottom-up approach.
Could I ask the President-in-Office whether he would be willing to bring forward an initiative at Council level calling on the Commission to put in place a new poverty programme that will utilise the best of the past but to make it a real programme, not just experts exchanging ideas, or meetings taking place in exotic parts of the Union.
Question No 17 by (H-0511/99): Subject: 'Open' Council meetings The Finnish Presidency began with the laudable aim of holding many of the Council' s meetings in open session, accessible to the public and the media.
These questions are all based around a common theme: "a strong and open Europe in the new Millennium" .
With regard to the Member' s question about certain Member States' attitude to these initiatives from the Presidency, it should be pointed out that the initiatives were approved unanimously by the Council.
I am also pleased because we have ended the sitting on time, in harmony with the Council.
As the time allotted to Questions to the Council has run out, Question Nos. 18 to 27 will be answered in writing.
