Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Tuesday, 23 March 1999.
Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, a terrible fire broke out in the Mont Blanc tunnel on 24 March killing at least 40 people, some of whom have yet to be identified.
The reports by Mr Crowley and Mr Fayot can in any event only be taken after that debate.
Our services tell me that there is no difficulty with that.
Perhaps therefore, on your own initiative and on that of this Parliament, we should debate this issue in the presence of the Council and the Commission, since it concerns the present and the future of the people in the Balkans and in Europe.
Mr Ephremidis, we all enjoy your speeches but what you are requesting is already included in the agenda.
On Wednesday afternoon, a debate will be held on the situation in Kosovo, following the statements by the Council and the Commission on this issue.
Parliament has therefore already taken the situation into consideration.
Mr Bontempi is therefore the first speaker.
Everyone realises that the greatest innovation of the Amsterdam Treaty - due to enter into force a few days from now, on 1 May - is the 'area of freedom, security and justice', a brand new concept which constitutes a major step forward for the Union, following the establishment of a single currency and the attempts to launch a policy on employment.
The other merit of this new and innovative part of the Treaty is that it is fundamentally, explicitly and clearly based on protection, promotion and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
I say this because our task is complicated by the surviving distinction between the first and third pillars and of unanimous voting within the Council, plus the weakness of parliamentary control both nationally and in the EU.
The fact that Europol could not begin its work, however, has undoubtedly given organised crime in Europe a further advantage.
For this reason we want Europol not only to be able to begin work on 1 July but also to be able to work effectively from this date.
Even in its first report the European Parliament was cautiously in favour of extending Europol's powers.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, which will enter into force in only a matter of days, points in this direction.
Only on this condition, rather than in any event, do we call for new rights for Europol.
Since the Maastricht Treaty came into force - in November 1993, that is to say five years ago - those five years have been almost totally wasted.
The second part of my report concerns the creation of a European public prosecutor's office.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for many people the Internet has allowed access to a wealth of stored information.
It is therefore right that the Member States have proposed joint action, on the basis of Article K.3 of the Maastricht Treaty, to combat child pornography on the Internet more effectively.
A few comments, Mr President, to add to my report on the Council report on a post-1999 European Union drugs strategy.
Stranger still is the fact that the Commission will be unveiling its 2000-2005 action plan on drugs any day now, when we in Parliament do not know exactly what the relationship is between the Council's plan and that of the Commission.
In a letter of 9 December 1998 we were asked to deliver an opinion, but the Council of Justice Ministers had already adopted the action plan on 3 December.
The crucial question of whether the Schengen acquis should be incorporated in the first or third pillar, in accordance with Article 4 or Article 6, has not been settled.
We are facing a situation where we have a proliferation of organised crime on an international basis.
There are many activities which are criminal in some countries but not in others.
Mr President, I should like to begin by touching briefly on Mr Wiebenga's report on criminal procedures (Corpus Juris).
At the same time, certain differences in the Member States' legal systems must be respected in any coordination process.
This debate also includes Mr Bontempi's report concerning an action plan on an area of freedom, security and justice, and I have nothing but good to say about it.
I should now like to move on to Mrs d'Ancona's more controversial report on the EU's strategies in the battle against drugs.
The report specifically reflects the idea that it really is a battle against drugs - and that means all drugs.
The report before us today is significantly more balanced than previous proposals.
This applies in particular to future members in Central and Eastern Europe.
However, it must be safe for European citizens to walk in their neighbourhoods.
The European Union, in line with the commitment entered into in the Amsterdam Treaty, must become an area of freedom, security and justice where citizens enjoy a high level of safety.
Organised crime operates at a professional level.
In my own constituency in Dublin only this weekend I have seen a family who have lost two young women during the last year as a result of drug abuse.
For this reason we in the Green Group in the European Parliament consider it to be very important that Europol, as an intergovernmental organisation, does not acquire any additional powers that would be inconceivable for our national police authorities and that violate the rights of EU citizens.
Life on earth has always been very difficult.
Mr President, the prospect of Europol as an effective instrument to combat organised crime has been held out for longer than I have been in this House.
Of course we are all interested in a functional Europol as an appropriate weapon against organised crime.
I did not want to have to mention the recent situation in Kosovo and the need for Europe to assert itself on the international stage, but I think that it is unavoidable.
Mr President, there is something unusual about this joint debate on several reports.
Nevertheless, I have tabled four amendments which I hope the House and the Commission will support, in particular Amendment No 2.
For freedom, security and justice, yes.
I must say that the d'Ancona report is a great improvement on the reports we have discussed before.
I should like to thank my colleagues in both Parliament and the Commission for that.
Mr President, what we are really doing today is holding a security debate in two blocks.
In the first block I would like to look at the problem of drugs.
There is a simple reason for this: currently more than 5 million young people in the European Union are taking synthetic drugs.
The anti-drugs strategies come under three pillars; we have several action plans and a variety of reports on the drugs problem.
We should not have a common European criminal law or public prosecutor.
I do not believe we need any new instruments, but instead should implement those we have more effectively.
I agree that in the long term, Europol should be given powers that would make collaboration between police and customs authorities in the Member States as effective as possible.
The Amsterdam Treaty offers precisely this possibility.
In my view, we should first of all try to agree on the types of crime that should be regarded as the most serious in all the Member States.
In this respect, the Amsterdam Treaty provides a chance to agree at least on a set of minimum rules.
The report proposes, amongst other things, a far-reaching harmonisation of criminal law in this area.
The Schmid report describes the difficulties involved.
Finally, I should like to say a word about the d'Ancona report and the battle against drugs.
The European Council has therefore asked the Commission to prepare a new action plan.
For instance, the ground must be prepared by preliminary work so that legal action can be taken against drugs-related crime and drug abuse.
I know that Mrs d'Ancona is also satisfied with the interinstitutional cooperation which has been established during the past year between Parliament, the Commission and the Council in the battle against drugs.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The tragedy of hundreds of thousands of people being forced to flee Kosovo has clearly shown that migration policy in general - and asylum policy in particular - can no longer be tackled by countries on their own.
I therefore welcome the fact that the Austrian Presidency reopened this debate by presenting a strategic document on the Union's migration and asylum policy.
The right to request political asylum is a fundamental right based on the Geneva Convention; it cannot be violated.
What is taking place here is social abuse.
It is in line with the Dublin Convention that people who are seeking refuge apply for asylum in the first country they have entered, and these countries are then required to examine the application for asylum.
The report which I subsequently presented has been debated twice, and when it was put to the vote on 16 March, the situation changed as a result of a U-turn by the PSE, the Greens and others.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both Commission proposals have been presented at a time when the importance of asylum policy for the European Union is becoming alarmingly clear.
This concerns all stages that a refugee goes through in the EU: reception, stay and return to the country of origin.
They are also the link between the action programme and the Joint Action.
If the Council had not failed to adopt the Commission proposal we would now be in a position to treat the Kosovo refugees differently.
Such a measure can only succeed by agreement and in cooperation with the people concerned.
The Kosovo crisis shows that the Geneva Convention on the status of refugees is in no way obsolete.
Mr President, I am speaking as rapporteur and as draftsman of an opinion, but in relation to two different reports.
Parliament criticised the creation of this Centre for Information in 1992.
It was decided at that stage that CIREFI was to be involved in the issues of illegal immigration and the smuggling of humans.
Firstly, it is difficult to understand why the Commission is not involved in this work, particularly as we approach the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very sincerely for her work and her ability to move such a controversial report forward in such a short time.
I am sure all the Members of this House would like to thank her for enabling us to give our opinion on this issue at such an appropriate time and before we complete our work here.
On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to point out that our immigration policy and the treatment of 'legal' immigrants in the European Union are going to become increasingly vital issues in our relations with third countries.
Firstly, although we are pleased with this document, we would have been much happier - as I said in relation to the previous issue - if the Council had provided a strong impetus by approving the documents already on the table, which were presented by the Commission in recent months, not to mention years.
Mr President, as rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights my task was to deal with the legal issues raised by the additional protocol to the Eurodac Convention.
That is why we voted against it in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and spoke out against the adoption of this report.
Mr President, I have three comments to make on the reports on asylum policy which feature on our agenda for the plenary this evening.
Asylum seekers are not allowed to apply for asylum in more than one Member State, it was decided in Dublin.
It is important to highlight the fact that the action plan will help us to coordinate Community initiatives and those of the Member States.
The way the Commission has organised the pilot projects carried out in the last two years has not been particularly satisfactory, since the Member States have not been properly informed about the development of the projects and nothing has been done to help them to participate.
On another matter, and without going into an in-depth analysis of the legal basis for the approval of the action plan - Article 235 - I simply want to point out that it might possibly have been better to wait until the Treaty of Amsterdam comes into force and to adopt these measures under the framework of Community action to promote social integration, in accordance with the new Article 137 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Nevertheless, Mr President, Commissioner, we are very much in favour of the adoption of these proposals and we hope that they can be implemented as soon as possible.
Mr President, this debate is overshadowed by the war in Kosovo.
The relevant legislative proposal, a form of joint action, was accepted last year by the European Parliament, but the Council of Ministers has done nothing about it.
We have no system for the acceptance of refugees, although we do have a very small refugee fund of EUR 15 million or so.
I refer you, for example, to paragraph 26 of Mrs Reding's excellent report.
The Tampere summit will be too late to help the Kosovars.
Such ambiguity is also evident in the presidency's strategic document on immigration and asylum.
That is why my group is proposing in an amendment that the Member States should regulate the status of illegal immigrants, while respecting human rights and the relevant international conventions.
I would call on our governments to ratify and implement all the international conventions, particularly the United Nations International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and their Families and the 1992 Council of Europe Convention on the Participation of Foreigners in Public Life at Local Level.
The provisions of these conventions should be included in the future Community policy on immigration and asylum provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam, instead of this arsenal of administrative controls that simply increase in the number of files to be dealt with.
In fact, in France, in 1997, 83 % of applications for asylum were rejected.
The presidency's strategic document does nothing to alter this trend.
Mr President, this report takes on an even wider significance following the tragic events in Yugoslavia and Kosovo, right in the heart of Europe.
There is an overwhelming and immediate need to protect and care for the victims of war, to stop the genocide and to find a solution acceptable to all sides, including respect for and understanding of the needs of neighbouring countries.
With regard to what Mr Pirker said, it is not true that we did not or do not want a report on Eurodac.
We wanted a report but not the one that Mr Pirker has given us.
The report analyses four key problems.
The second involves immigrant labour and the mobility of the labour force.
The first of these relates to the necessary distinction between the problem of asylum and that of immigration.
The implications of this are very important, particularly as regards access to the territory of Europe and, thus, access to the procedure put in place for the many people applying for asylum who, for reasons that are very easy to understand, do not have the relevant documents.
Parliament has often expressed its view on this issue, yet there has not been the slightest shift in the Council's position or in the measures taken by the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is increasingly apparent that the Austrian strategy paper on asylum and immigration in Europe has become the basis for an extremely productive and, above all, necessary discussion.
We are not in that situation: on the contrary, we have 20 million unemployed.
In my view it is irresponsible to reject the Eurodac Convention when we consider that 80 % of illegal immigrants are victims of trafficking networks that cynically exploit the misery and suffering of these people.
I believe that speedy processing is particularly in the interest of applicants for asylum.
For this reason we must open up this second possibility.
Mr President, Commissioner, I took great pleasure in listening to Mrs Reding presenting her report.
In practical terms, moreover, the Schengen Agreement has played a major role in generally making it more difficult for asylum seekers to persuade the EU authorities to look into their reasons for requesting asylum.
Eurodac is central to the system devised under the Dublin Convention for applying the principle of the first country of asylum.
I should also like to say a few words about the Reding report concerning the strategy paper on migration and asylum policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the increasingly restrictive measures that we have been discussing and unfortunately adopting for years are always claimed by the Right in this House not to be restricting refugee policy but merely combating abuse.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights gives everyone the right to live in a family.
That right must be guaranteed by the Union for refugees from Kosovo and for any other asylum seeker or refugee.
When talking about immigration, in my view, there are two key elements: solidarity and the human dimension of the problem.
We cannot understand immigration if we are only concerned about our own borders, our own welfare or our own geostrategic interests.
We cannot debate in the European Parliament as if these things had not happened.
Secondly, we need to make it clear that asylum seekers and refugees are not immigrants.
The refusal rate is not a measure of need, but a measure of failure of will and courage by Member States who are refusing to recognise that the level of valid applications may well be substantially above the level of those currently granted either permanent or temporary leave to remain.
Thirdly and finally, within the Union we have four million black Europeans and 12 to 14 million third country nationals.
We have a responsibility to ensure not only that all citizens have the same rights and same duties within the European Union but so do all residents.
Mr President, it is not easy to round off this debate as the most important issues have already been discussed repeatedly.
And the best way of seeing exactly what we want Europe to be is by looking at how we present ourselves, how we present our internal environment to those who knock on our door, be they immigrants, those seeking asylum or refuge, or displaced persons.
I would like to stress one aspect that has already been mentioned, but that, in my view, has perhaps not received the attention it deserves, namely, the legal framework.
The present is here and it is posing a multitude of threats.
It is especially important that such a system should also include all the Central and Eastern European countries.
From the report, it is clear that Mrs Terrón i Cusí would prefer the Commission to be responsible for managing an information system of this kind.
The Commission's role in the area of migration policy will be increased in the next few years with the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty.
The world has changed in the intervening years, and the refugee situation with it.
I am convinced that Europe will continue to shoulder its responsibilities as regards the crisis in Kosovo.
The war in Kosovo has shown yet again that Europe must equip itself with a coordinated refugee policy.
I also assume that I have the support of the Council of Ministers, as well as of this House.
The intention is therefore to wait until the Amsterdam Treaty enters into force, and in this way to strengthen both the democratic and legislative control.
Furthermore, we must give the concepts of freedom, security and justice enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty a clear and precise meaning.
I also think that the two debates we have had tonight have been valuable in illustrating how important that is.
Mr President, this piece of work has a very long title for a project which is about the benefits of electronic transmission of data between administrations within the European Union.
It really is a success story, showing the citizens of the European Union how decisions taken on their behalf and the implementation of those decisions can be made much more transparent and readily identifiable.
I wish to stress that it is very important not only that each particular scheme has the benefit of electronic means of exchange of data but also that the methodology involved in each project can be transferred in its turn to other projects and is not just a one-off.
I hope that the comparatively small number of amendments from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will meet with your approval.
In December 1997 the Commission presented its proposals for a second phase of the IDA programme.
These ideas have been fully endorsed by both the European Parliament and the Council in the first reading.
The Commission has already expressed its satisfaction that the Council has incorporated a majority of Parliament's amendments in the first reading.
In this second reading the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes two amendments to the decision on guidelines and one amendment to the decision on interoperability measures.
These are based on amendments that the Council declined in the first reading.
However, the Commission believes that the formulation now proposed by the European Parliament not only would refine the political priorities of the IDA programme and increase its transparency but also could be expected to remove the objections raised by the Council in the first reading.
I am therefore pleased to announce that the Commission accepts all three amendments proposed by the European Parliament in the second reading.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the report (A4-0174/99) by Mr Harrison, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 77/388/EEC as regards the determination of the person liable for payment of value added tax (COM(98)0660 - C4-0705/98-98/0312(CNS)).
The Commission still fully intends to move to a definitive system of VAT collection and liability based on the principle of a single place of taxation.
This delay of the definitive VAT regime is regrettable in itself but even more frustrating for the SMEs, which we want to be active participants in the single market, is the introduction of an interim system which seems as confusing as its predecessor.
Perhaps the Commission might reply to these points this evening, if it arrives on time.
Madam President, I should like to begin by saying that our group broadly shares the arguments put forward by the rapporteur, to whom we are grateful for his work in this important field.
The internal market could not operate in a productive manner unless more user-friendly rules were implemented at national and European level in the area of tax collection.
In May 1997 the Commission proposed that VAT collection be included in the second phase of the SLIM programme.
I welcome the efforts being made by the Union to simplify the tax regime in the area of VAT.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this report by Mr Harrison is an important step that will allow us to further simplify VAT legislation by means of the rules governing the legislation on VAT representation and on mutual assistance on recovery.
We already know that the VAT system has many different legal bases in the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, I regret that Commissioner Monti is not here, not because I want to make a pedantic point about his absence, but rather because I would have liked to say this to him personally and have it put on the record in the House.
In other words we want to see the tax base expand through the energy tax, but we want to state clearly and politically to the Commission and to the Council that we would like to see offsets of this new expanded energy tax base being recycled into lowering the tax wedge, the tax cost and labour.
We support the Monti proposal but we want a greener Monti proposal.
We want competitive handicap to be recognised and addressed but only where that is genuine and not simply a carte blanche to ignore the tax altogether.
Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, I would like to say that, in general, we agree with the three objectives put forward by the Commission in this directive: harmonising taxes, reducing emissions by increasing costs, and using this revenue to reduce social charges.
In any case, the amendments you are proposing will produce an increase in charges.
It deserves our support, as does Commissioner Monti.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Cox, as we said before when discussing this report, our position has not altered since Mr Cox's position has not altered in his report.
Obviously, our group supports its chairman's report.
For this reason, a harmonised taxation system would not treat different Member States fairly.
Taking these observations into account, I believe the report is excellent and I give it my wholehearted support.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this report as a small step in the right direction.
But it is essential for us that the second stage of ecological tax reform in Germany is not slowed down by Brussels and that in the medium-term we can finally reach a stage where there are pioneer states that can lead the way in the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in international competition we need a sensible form of energy taxation.
My country, for example, has taken a leading role in this area.
Accordingly, the general introduction of upper limits on taxation for energy-intensive firms, as provided in Article 15 of the Commission proposal, makes a great deal of sense.
In any case, those Member States whose energy taxation rates are above the minimum level should at least be given the opportunity to adjust their taxation levels accordingly.
Mr Cox, the report you have drafted and the conclusions you have drawn are extremely interesting and important.
The Commission has put a proposal to the Council, the main thrust of which is the need to modernise the Community system for the taxation of mineral oils and to extend its scope to all energy products.
The Commission has also used the proposal to meet its obligation to review minimum rates of taxation on mineral oils and, at the same time, to respond to the ECOFIN Council request to come forward with new proposals following the deadlock in the negotiations on the CO2 energy tax.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 11, 12, 13, 23, 32, 33 and parts of Amendment No 25.
However, the suggestion that we should move straight to the second stage of minimum rates from January 2000 and increase these annually by the rate of inflation plus 2 % for five years cannot be accepted.
However, discussions in the Council have shown that even the proposed minimum levels are causing difficulties for a number of Member States.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
In this context I am keenly awaiting the Council's common position on the bus directive, as I am sure that through codecision we will not only find a solution to this dossier but we will be able to set the course for the future.
We do not wish to restrict ourselves to a single type of design for this, however, and for this reason, in Amendment No 12, we advocate a general heat-resistant material.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1 to 6 and Nos 8, 9 and 11.
Amendments Nos 1 to 3 and Nos 5, 6 and 8 basically clarify the original proposal, whereas Nos 4, 9 and 11 relate to specific safety aspects of combustion heaters.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 7, 10 and 12.
No 7 commits the Commission to drawing up proposals for testing the efficiency of combustion heaters by 1 October 2001.
Moreover, as regards the date of entry into force, 1 October 2001 seems a somewhat unrealistic deadline for new legislative initiatives.
Amendments Nos 10 and 12 offer an alternative to the positioning of combustion heaters in the passenger compartment of coaches and minibuses.
The wording of these amendments guarantees a level of safety which is equivalent to, if not lower than, that envisaged in the directive; in particular, they do not explicitly guarantee the same safety level in relation to the risk of fire.
In conclusion, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1 to 6 and Nos 8, 9 and 11, but is obliged to reject Amendments Nos 7, 10 and 12.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
