Opening of annual session I declare the 1998-1999 session of the European Parliament open.
The President also mentioned that he would inform the two signatories of the request for a topical and urgent debate in writing.
I really think it is high time something was done about this in Parliament.
Mr President, my point concerns page 15 of the Minutes.
Mr McMahon, we will see if this correction can be made but, as you know, this is a task that normally falls to the Commission. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, on a point of order.
Mr President, 11 Member States have already presented transition plans.
The euro is now a reality that is becoming more and more concrete every day, but that does not mean we can regard it without particular apprehension and attention.
To do this, I believe it is very important not to forget the aspect of communication in these decisions, because these decisions have to be understood and accepted by the citizen.
On 26 February, the Commission also organized a round table that developed well and broadly answered the concerns set out in my report.
My aim with this report was to give as concrete an insight as possible into the impact that the introduction of the euro may be expected to have on tourists and on businesses in the tourism sector.
Although tourism continues to be the most competitive sector in Europe, accounting for 60 % of the world market, its relative position has declined progressively over the last decade.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, legal convergence of national central banks is not just a technical detail.
We should be advocating a basic strategy in all these areas, with a focus on eliminating incompatibility and providing a clear basis for single monetary policy.
This also applies to the relationship between the ESCB and the tasks that will still be performed by national central banks, notably banking supervision in some cases and collateral business in all cases.
The various forms of integration that have shaped our national banks over the years, and which still exist today, could help to avoid this sort of mistake.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like the Peres Rojo report, the Wolf, Torres Marques and Arroni reports demonstrate that the days of theoretical debates about monetary union are over: the problems before us now are highly practical ones.
However, all the other practical things involved in introducing the euro are also important, and it is therefore our duty as a European Parliament to express our regret that neither our citizens nor our small and medium-sized businesses have been given adequate preparation or information.
The European Parliament must appeal not only to the European institutions to prepare people and SMEs for the euro - national governments and administrations also need to play their part.
Mr President, in exactly 297 days the euro will be introduced in the countries taking part in monetary union.
The Arroni report has therefore arrived not a moment too soon, and it is this report I will be discussing on behalf of my Group.
The rapporteur has done an excellent job, and we would like to offer him our congratulations.
As far as the display of dual prices is concerned, Mr President, I am glad to note that the report is on the same wavelength as the Commission.
During the round table discussion to which the rapporteur referred, the Commission stated clearly that it is not a priori in favour of statutory regulations on dual pricing.
Dual pricing can be useful for information purposes, but it is merely one of the many alternatives.
We are therefore not able to support the amendments proposing that dual price display be laid down in a regulation.
This is not acceptable.
The small shopkeeper will be asked to play an important role in the changeover process.
But behind every revolution lie the specific psychological aspects.
There he will find an operator, a small businessman, a cashier or an assistant who is familiar with the single currency system because, otherwise, the effect on us will be terrible psychologically.
French colleagues will recall that in their country, 30 years on, the elderly are still today thinking in terms of old francs and new francs.
Thirty years ago, two zeros were simply wiped off, and still today they talk in terms of old francs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is really very important, in the sense that it offers us various practical prospects for the application of the euro process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these reports are paving the way for the post-euro period.
Today we are discussing how national central banks and national political institutions can get involved in the democratic monitoring of a central bank and a central bank system.
To ensure that the central banks have adequate information, they need in particular to be able to listen to the representatives of governments or national parliaments.
We believe in this necessary independence, not through any anti-Keynesian convictions, but as a result of our European conviction.
Whatever the economic preferences of individual countries, it is clear that the choice of a single currency for Europe implies that it evades any national political pressure or manipulation, either directly or indirectly, even if this produces tension between the countries, which could be fatal for the European Union.
From that point on, we cannot follow him; for example, when he reproaches the EMI for considering incompatible with the treaty any legislative clause in which a central bank must take into account the economic policy of the government when implementing its own monetary policy.
So, which of the options should be chosen: a short transition period which would cost less but create errors and confusion; or a long transition period - we should remember that it could be up to six months - which would allow better understanding thanks to a smooth adaptation, but where the high cost will lead to an increase in consumer prices.
To sum up, I think the Commission, supported by the Arroni report is currently navigating visually.
The single currency is not an economic necessity but a political wish.
Our technocrats are not evaluating very well the psychological consequences of the monetary upheaval they are proposing.
Mr President, I believe the euro will electrify Europe, and these three reports demonstrate why.
In the case of the Wolf report on the legal convergence of national central banks and their relation to the ECB, the essential point is to ensure the transparency and democratic accountability of the ECB and its relations with the national banks.
In the case of the Arroni report on the practical aspects of the euro, there is common agreement on most items, including the need to encourage Member States to publish changeover plans and, more excitingly, to publish the euro designs of the national face of coins.
Tourism is Europe's and the world's biggest industry, yet here in Europe we have lost 10 % of market share since 1960.
Tourism is classically an industry of the single market.
The advent of the euro will be a tremendous supply-side fillip to that market, and to tourism in particular.
Secondly, tourists - the consumers.
To conclude, tourism and tourists will be the shock-troops of the euro, bringing the benefits of the euro immediately to the attention of all Europe's citizens.
Mr President, one of the previous speakers mentioned the costs we will face in changing over to the euro.
That means going to the bank in my own country and getting the five different currencies.
When we were back in Austria I gave her back the money, and even rounded it up to 10 000 lire, and she got just 50 schillings back in Austria.
We have about 60 % of the world market in tourism, so we are a real competitive force in this sector, and this represents an enormous opportunity for us.
We need to identify the areas where decisions have not yet been taken and to know what level of harmonization is desirable.
Among the priorities for the Member States was the need to ensure that they presented their transition plans before the end of 1997.
The Commission should inform us whether or not the various deadlines set for the end of 1997 in its communication have been met and fully respected.
This also applies to the need for continual assessment of how small and medium-sized companies, including small shopkeepers, are coping with the introduction of the euro.
I say this as an Irish Member because we in Ireland have practical knowledge and experience of this because of the changeover to decimalization, when prices in our country increased.
Schools should be closely involved in pilot projects regarding the introduction of the euro, particularly at the early stage.
I am disappointed that the Council is not represented here today for this big debate.
The attitude of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, to this matter was described as if he were proposing marriage but putting off the event for five years and saying that there would be conditions but not saying what they would be.
The other main British party's position is no better.
Tourism is still the sleeping giant industry of Europe.
Tourists will be the first to have this magnificent experience, an experience which I believe will weld us together - at least those fortunate enough to be in the system - and make us true Europeans, when the money in our pockets is the same as we cross the borders.
Mr President, one section of the Commission communication on the practical aspects of the introduction of the euro is devoted to the preparation of coins, but nothing is said about notes.
An obscure decision by the European Monetary Institute, wrongly applied from article 109 F, states that the notes will not display any distinctive national sign.
Well, here we have an excellent example of this lack of democracy.
The question of having a national symbol on one side of euro notes raises a number of points of principle.
That is why the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations thinks the Council should accept its responsibilities, make use of the powers it holds pursuant to Article 109 L.4, and decide that euro notes will have a national side.
I therefore agree with Mrs Torres Marques when she insists in her report on the need for the national governments to begin a joint action to promote and spread the euro within their respective countries.
Some examples of early widespread measures to increase awareness are already present in Europe, but we need these operations to be intensified and real simulations of the use of the new currency to be made, both by consumers and by businesses operating in the tourist sector, with adequate information and training for staff and a due adaptation of the computer support to the new financial management.
These actions are all the more important in those less developed regions of Europe, where the tourist sector is often an economic lever of fundamental significance, where the lack of a timely and effective preliminary strategy for the euro could involve the loss of competitiveness on European markets, with undoubted negative repercussions on the respective local economies.
To conclude, conducting a pilot project involving several European municipalities could lead to the creation of a real network of cooperation, with the possibility of extending the results of the analysis to other municipalities which are not the specific subject of a study.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's joint debate on the euro based on reports by Mrs Torres Marques, Mr Arroni and Mr Wolf is particularly important in that we are only a few weeks away from the famous weekend of 1 May.
I also agree that it seems urgent to put in place programmes which would allow the completion of information on the euro for companies and staff in the tourism sector.
As regards the Arroni report, I recall that following our profitable debate in January, we voted together for measures to facilitate the transition from national currency to the euro.
Today Mr Arroni has submitted a proposal concerning the optional nature of dual pricing, which I feel runs the risk of causing problems for the so-called vulnerable social groups.
On the subject of conversion charges, I cannot help noticing a certain amount of backing down compared with the text produced by our colleague Mr Pérez Royo.
Of course, in my capacity as rapporteur on industrial competitiveness, I can understand the concern of my colleague to preserve small and medium-sized enterprises.
So we must identify specific measures in this regard to minimize as far as possible the cost of their changeover to the euro, but it is not a question of abandoning consumers.
The role of the Central European Bank and the central banks cannot be absolute, not more so than their powers.
Setting up a dialogue between these economic bodies and political powers is the least we could do before very quickly constructing that political Europe which is the only guarantee of democracy and the voice of the people.
It also rightly says that the presidents of national central banks can choose to explain their monetary policy to their national parliaments.
The rapporteur submitted one other amendment to the part-session, and the Group of the European People's Party can live with that.
Yet, during a vote on consumer goods later this week, we will try to crush SMEs by introducing legislation which is so onesidedly on the side of the consumer that it will be difficult for SMEs to make a living.
Surely it cannot be that difficult to make recommendations to the Member States on how we might handle the period during which the euro has to be introduced with a little more creatively and ease, during a time when SMEs will experience enormous problems as a result of something they did not ask for.
The report by Mrs Torres Marques is good, but the panegyrics on what the euro will bring to tourism reminds me of the paradise on earth we were promised when we started to introduce the internal market.
The first concerns the need to create information programmes for those who work in tourism, and also convergence programmes for small and medium-sized tourist enterprises.
The second point concerns those small and medium-sized enterprises which are located in regions close to the euro zone but which will not be in the euro.
Because if there is no money in this case, I regret to say that I am not at all optimistic about whether the euro will have positive repercussions for the tourist industry, especially for the SMEs which make up 90 % of this industry.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I would like to speak mainly about Mr Wolf's report.
Mr President, some Members of this Parliament keep wanting to link issues relating to social disadvantage to the euro.
All the same, both the Member States and the European Union have a responsibility to talk about policy competition after the introduction of the euro.
I listen with concern to those who are driving relentlessly towards the creation of the single currency in their own Member States, regardless of the views of their electorate.
I would be grateful if someone could answer me one question: if countries that meet the Maastricht criteria become members in the first wave, will some of these countries then turn around and demand Objective 1 status?
Surely these two positions are totally incompatible?
Mr President, today we are discussing practical safeguards involved in introducing the euro, which means we also need to address the protection of consumers' rights.
Dual pricing during the transition period is an absolute must, and should not be optional as envisaged in the report.
I do not believe that the conversion costs, certainly as far as banks are concerned, should be passed on to the consumer directly because from 1 January 1999 the euro will only actually exist in electronic form.
SMEs will have costs but there is a level playing field across the European Union.
My constituency stretches from the Blackpool coast through the Ribble Valley into the Pendle Hills.
For example, in one Member State that I know well, the central bank's decisions could be deferred for 14 days.
Let me be clear: the European Monetary Institute will be presenting its report to us on 25 March, and that is sure to include a detailed analysis of the independence of the central banks.
We will be very closely examining this aspect of central banks' independence in both reports, Commissioner.
Mr President, now that the introduction of the euro is approaching, we are getting more and more positive as well as negative views, not only within the Union, but also in the United States - witness the opening article in the Herald Tribune.
The Commission proposal and the Arroni report cover the practical aspects of introduction, which is fine, but they devote insufficient attention to the issue of public support.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Winnie Ewing on her contribution, which I agree with absolutely.
Tourism is a key sector in Europe, and the euro will definitely provide a huge degree of additional transparency.
But it will also reveal the differences in indirect taxation, value added tax in particular.
For example, if we take visitor accommodation in Luxembourg, France and Portugal, VAT is as low as 3 to 5.5 %, whereas, ironically, in two of the nations which are opting out of the euro - the United Kingdom and Denmark - the rates are 17.5 % and 25 %.
This creates a double barrier for those countries and the tourist sectors within those Member States: first of all they lack the convenience of the euro zone and, secondly, they will become out-priced within the single market.
Failure will result in the loss of jobs in this precious sector.
Mr President, declaration no 6 of the Treaty on European Union stipulates that the Community will commit itself to facilitating the renegotiation of the existing monetary arrangements between Member States of the European Union and third countries with small populations which adopt the currency of a neighbouring country as their national currency.
Although granting the euro to the Vatican and to San Marino does not pose any particular moral problem, the same cannot be said of the Principality of Monaco, which is ruled by an absolute monarchy which does not respect human rights and reigns over a tiny territory where tax evasion on an enormous scale takes place to the detriment of all Member States of the European Union, except France.
I would ask our Parliament to make its voice heard and oppose a decision by the Commission in favour of Monaco which would be iniquitous and immoral.
The people, the parliamentary members and the Community should be involved in this choice.
It has been decided that this circulation is to start on 1 January 2002.
Can the Commissioner tell me if any countries have announced their intention so far to limit this period to less than the stipulated six months?
I think it should be possible to limit the period of dual circulation, for example in business, to as short a period as possible - two, three or maybe four weeks - although it may mean that in banks the exchange of national currencies into euros can continue for some time, for example until 30 June 2002.
Finally - and this is my last question, Commissioner - during the years 1999 to 2002, professional associations, for example in the commercial sector, will need a great deal of money for their communication and training programmes.
In this case, I am afraid the report will not hold anyone's attention.
If on 1 or 2 May we said that a certain country could enter, but that it is not legitimately in the position to do so because it still has not altered its internal situation, at least that would be an important step, and it would probably oblige the country to move in the right direction.
It seems to me that it would be difficult to admit Member States on suspensive conditions; so we must have a clear and concise decision.
My third point concerns conversion charges.
The principle argued for is that people should not have to pay for compulsory conversion to euros, in other words for converting their national currency into the euro and vice versa.
The first thing I want to emphasize is what an important step economic and monetary union is.
There is no doubt that it is the most important advance to take place in Europe since the birth of the Community, forty odd years ago.
Thirdly, I want to repeat something I think is fundamental: the genuine and definitive players in the euro adventure are the citizens, both as economic producers and as consumers - as users, in short, of the new currency.
On that point, I want to draw attention to a question I think is important, which has already been mentioned, for example by Mr Hendrick: the question of transaction costs for exchange into euros or for exchange between participating currencies during that long transitional period of three years.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Helena Torres Marques on her report on the euro and tourism, which is extremely timely and draws attention to the importance of the sector and to the way in which it will benefit from the single currency.
As the world's third largest industry, after oil and automobiles, Europe's 60 % share of the tourism market is very substantial.
Mr President, Commissioner, the three reports we are debating today have a basic point in common, on which the success of the single currency will largely depend.
The advantages which the single currency will bring for this sector are obvious.
With respect to the Arroni report, I want to congratulate the rapporteur most sincerely on his excellent work.
The future European System of Central Banks will prevent it happening.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it might seem that everything that there is to be said has already been said this morning.
The Arroni report deals with how arrangements for the changeover can be optimized, and it touches on some key issues.
Nine or ten Member States who will probably participate in monetary union are already doing this.
The sector is characterized by economic activity that plays a unifying role within the Union, and promotes better reciprocal knowledge and a greater sense of common citizenship.
Besides being one of the main sources of creating wealth and employment, it will be one of the spheres (together with the distribution and commercial system, as already mentioned) in which the methods of introducing the euro will condition its success or confirm the difficulties, as these sectors are in direct contact with the citizens and consumers.
The euro will also have a considerable impact on the tourist sector as, on the one hand, there will be a reduction in transaction costs and, on the other, there will be a greater transparency of prices.
Consequently, not only is tourism fundamental to the success of the euro, but we are faced with a historic occasion for the revival of this fundamental sector although, as already stated, we should remember with regret that the budget has considerably reduced the funds available for the specific programmes planned.
This will stimulate a fruitful interaction in the market between supply and demand in establishing the best possible conditions for consumers.
So first of all I would like to shed some light on the results of the last round table organized by the Commission on 26 February on the practical aspects of introducing the euro, which your rapporteur Mr Arroni has covered.
Finally, Mr Wolf's report will allow me to mention the progress made in terms of what we call legal convergence.
So I will start with the practical aspects of the introduction of the euro.
The Commission communication of 11 February and the round table of 26 February bear witness to the fact that considerable progress has been made since May 1997.
Whether referring to the preparation of public administration or other practicalities, the round table which was organized with the support of the European Parliament provided the opportunity to indicate several reasons for satisfaction which seem to me to respond to a large number of the questions which some of you put to me earlier.
Looking first at preparations in the public sector, today 11 Member States have presented a plan for moving over to the euro, in other words they have forecast possible relationships in euros between individuals, companies and their administration from 1999.
Moreover, legislative work at national level to translate decisions into facts is moving ahead properly.
Mr Fayot asked about the number of countries which had decided to have national sides to their coins.
According to my newly established counting method, seven countries in the European Union have already adopted the national sides: Belgium, Germany, Austria, France, Italy, Portugal and Ireland.
On the other practical questions, since May last year all the difficult points have been the subject of an in-depth examination by groups of experts, where consumers were represented together with the professionals involved and public authority representatives.
These studies, the quality of which has been praised by everyone, enabled the round table to produce tangible results on the four specific points which answer your questions.
My first point concerns dual pricing, on which a consensus has been reached.
Secondly, a consensus has also been reached on the bank charges for conversion into euros.
The Commission is pleased to state that the banking sector has already confirmed in writing its commitment to these two principles.
Otherwise, encouraging progress has also been noted in three areas.
The first concerns the specific situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which has been raised frequently this morning.
In particular, it has been noted that there have been a number of advances in their relationship with the large groups, and advances in preparations for changeover to the euro.
The draft regulation on the legal status of the euro states that this maximum period of six months from 1 January 2002 can be reduced by each Member State.
In any case, the Member States must clearly make known their intentions on this question between now and the end of 1998.
Only yesterday I gained broad approval at the Ecofin Council which was being held in Brussels on all the points which I have presented to you.
These recommendations will be forwarded to you, to the Council and to professional organizations, as it is our intention that you should be able to discuss them properly and in detail.
Secondly, I hope that on 2 May, when the European Council adopts the list of countries changing over to the euro, that it will also adopt these guidelines.
Small and medium-sized enterprises make up 85 % of this sector, representing a third of service exports in the Union.
The development of this sector of activities has important knock-on effects on all the local and regional economies.
I would refer you to a very significant study which the Commission published yesterday, 9 March, concerning (I believe) Europeans on holiday, and which my colleague Mr Papoutsis presented to the International Congress of Tourism in Berlin.
The introduction of the euro will enable tourists and travellers not only to stop losing money in exchange commission, but to save on travel, accommodation and restaurant costs.
This will be a source of economy and gains in competitiveness for travel companies throughout Europe.
Having said that - and here I combine several questions which have been raised - some aspects must be looked into in more depth.
Mr Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I will see you on 25 March about this.
So let us not yet relax our efforts now, when it still remains to inform the European public about the advantages of introducing the European currency and to disperse the fears which may still exist amongst some of us.
Thank you, Mr Commissioner, and thank you to the three rapporteurs and all the speakers.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
During the meal our host was called to the telephone, and he was asked to come to the hospital as quickly as possible because his eldest son had been involved in a road accident.
Their son had died.
More than 2 million Europeans are injured in road accidents every year, and many of them will remain permanently disabled.
Experts estimate this at more than ECU 150 billion a year.
This distress, and this waste of human life and financial resources, are not acceptable in a civilized society with all but unlimited technical capabilities.
That means reducing the number of road deaths to less than 25 000 in the year 2010.
I recognize Commissioner Kinnock's great concern for road safety in this, and his determination to do what he can, bearing in mind the limited powers of the Commission.
I would like to point out, however, that those countries which have expressed their targets in concrete figures have achieved good results.
In order to fulfil the targets, priorities will have to be set for the 65 measures in the Commission programme.
The introduction of 30 km/h zones in residential areas and around schools saves many children's lives.
Finally, safe behaviour on the road - more than 90 % of accidents are caused by human error.
Mr President, road safety is a joint responsibility shared by the Union, the Member States, car manufacturers, educators, road safety organizations, road users of course, and many others.
The subsidiarity principle must be respected.
The EU must concentrate on measures where action at EU level leads to added value.
Mr Cornelissen speaks from both the head and from the heart in terms of his commitment to road safety.
The cost to society is probably at least ECU 100 billion.
It is very easy to do that because these incidents are often very individual, but collectively they represent the equivalent of two or three jumbo jet loads of passengers in Europe dying each and every week.
If that happened to one, two or three jumbo jets each and every week, those particular aircraft simply would not fly; we would not tolerate it.
Therefore we have a collective responsibility to ensure this issue receives the attention it deserves from Parliament, the Commission, the Council and society as a whole.
Commissioner Kinnock's proposals give us the tools to achieve that target.
All these measures will contribute to our common goal of tackling this unacceptable, appalling, disgraceful figure of 45 000 deaths every year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are delighted to see that you have arrived safely, Commissioner.
However, as it would be monotonous if we all agreed on everything, I shall highlight a problem: the Commission's communication on promoting road safety in 1997-2001 contains 65 proposals, and many of the proposals have to be presented by 1998/99.
Mr Cornelissen has quite rightly said that it is no good presenting 65 proposals if they are only implemented in a trickle.
In November 1993 we agreed in the Maastricht Treaty that measures can be adopted by the Parliament and Council.
My last point is a curious one.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, it is important for these problems to be discussed clearly, even if we have already found that words alone are not enough to reduce the number of victims.
Alongside the proposals to catalogue accidents and assess their effects in order to assist the injured parties, I consider more interesting and important the analyses of the means and initiatives to try to prevent them.
I still believe in means of assistance and behavioural measures, such as telematics as a means of control but also of assistance.
We also sympathize with him: all of us can, because we all have to battle continually with the terrible consequences of these kinds of traffic accidents.
When we see that in more or less exactly the same circumstances and at the same time, an accident similar to the one the year before happens on the A17 at Kortrijk, with at least as many people killed, then we might well ask when we are finally going to learn and do something about it.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I can also say that we are mostly very satisfied with Mr Cornelissen's report.
Two important issues are behind the huge number of casualties: namely speed and alcohol.
As far as the 30 km/h zones in towns and cities are concerned, we do not need any more studies.
The existing 30 km/h zones have more than proved their effectiveness, so let us start taking action.
On our European tarmac 45 000 people die each year, and more than 1.5 million are injured.
Yet this is not the inevitable price of progress, but the result of our choice of unsafe transport modes.
As a point of principle, I oppose valuing a human life at ECU 1 million.
The rapporteur, Mr Cornelissen, rightly points out that the figure of ECU 1 million can lead to abuse, as the cheapest measures might be the ones to get priority.
In this case, I believe telematics can play an important role with regard to both visual and oral communication.
Mr President, I very much welcome the extension in the Maastricht Treaty to joint competence for safety between the Member States and the European Union.
If you take the particular example of reducing the maximum amount of drivers' blood concentration to 0.5 mg/ml, this is only tinkering at the margins of road safety.
I hope the Commission will contrast that with the proposed action against insulin-dependent diabetic drivers in the United Kingdom, which is out of all proportion to any likely danger they would pose on the roads.
These drivers are now going to be banned in the United Kingdom and will lose their right to drive goods vehicles up to seven and a half tonnes.
Mr President, this debate on the future of European road safety takes place at a time when mobile phone usage in Ireland and across Europe is rapidly increasing.
The use of mobile phones in cars must be legislated for at a European level in the interests of better road safety.
The European car manufacturers must assume the costs of equipping all new manufactured cars with car phones in the interests of the medium to long-term future of road safety for car users and their passengers.
Finally, phone penetration in Ireland, which presently stands at 15 % of the population, is set to double by the end of the year.
Votes Madam President, please note that my colleague Mr Smith is ill today.
I have noted that you are here, Mr Falconer.
Before the roll-call vote on Amendment No 63 Madam President, could my presence in the Chamber be noted.
I will not be participating in this vote.
After the roll-call vote on Amendment No 67 Madam President, I am sorry that I must rise.
When a person asks for the floor prior to a roll-call vote, it is for that person to indicate whether he or she will participate in the vote and not for you.
I think that is all entirely correct in accordance with what we decided. - After the roll-call vote on Amendment No 58 Madam President, I wished to indicate that I was going to participate in that vote.
If you wish to adopt a text or an amendment, you vote in favour; if you wish to reject a text or an amendment, you vote against; if you want to do neither of those things but show that you are present here, you can always press the third button - the abstention button. (Mixed reactions) I know that some people claim there is a difference between abstaining and being present in the Chamber and not voting.
I think Mr Falconer agrees.
Therefore I wish to announce that I am present and that I will not vote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will not participate in the vote on this report, Madam President.
Very well, we will take note of that. (During successive votes, Parliament adopted the 9 legislative resolutions) Madam President, before we proceed to the vote, I would like to point out that in the voting list two amendments have not been allocated to the correct paragraphs, and that Amendment No 19 tabled by the Group of the European People's Party would not relate to paragraph 18 but to paragraph 19.
The vote on Amendment No 28 tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party should not be taken after paragraph 36, but as an addition to paragraph 45, because the issue is dealt with in that paragraph and it fits very well there.
I have received many requests for this report which must be sent out in languages that I cannot read.
I would also like to request the floor regarding Amendments Nos 11 and 5.
On Amendment No 11 Madam President, this is not a linguistic problem.
On Amendment No 5 Madam President, I cannot accept this amendment because it has nothing to do with the euro. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, I tried to catch your eye before this last roll-call vote.
That ruling is tantamount to creating two different forms of abstention.
You will have Members who wish neither to vote in favour of a text or against a text, but who wish to indicate their presence in the Chamber by pressing the button of abstention.
You will also have Members who wish neither to vote in favour of a text nor against a text by not pressing such a button and indicating to you orally which, as we have seen today, causes a number of problems.
It has often been the case that I have abstained from a vote because I did not wish to take a stance in favour of or against it but I accepted that it had been put to the vote.
The CFSP is only one of the tools used by the EU in the construction of a new state.
The draft directive presented to us today turns out to be essential since the economic context is becoming ever more complex: the single market is upon us, we are moving into the European dimension and harmonizing our legislation.
Article 3 states that the period of guarantee has been fixed at two years after delivery of the product and not after discovery of the fault.
However, neither the original Commission text on the sale of consumer goods and associated guarantees, nor the amendments proposed by the Kuhn report meet these criteria.
A second problem is the inclusion of secondhand goods within the scope of this directive, when some of the clauses are ill-suited to these goods, for which the idea of flaws is difficult to define since they have already been used.
During the Parliamentary sitting, certain amendments from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection were adopted as additions to the notion of consumer expectations and the buyer's right to an alternative option, thus making the text extremely vague and favouring the development of litigation.
For these basic reasons and reasons of legal practice, it was not possible for the French members of the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations to vote in favour of this text.
Any political action or legislative initiative in favour of consumer protection is a good thing and should be welcomed.
Therefore I have voted against the Kuhn report, in the hope that for the second reading it may be possible to reach a balance - which does not exist at the moment - so that consumer protection can be made compatible with protecting the interests of producers, which are also legitimate.
These are laws which, in the case of my own country, the United Kingdom, have been established and built up on case law over a long period.
This is because the Commission text would allow the consumer to ask the seller either to repair goods free of charge or to replace the goods, or to demand a price reduction or rescission of the contract.
The right to repair would operate for two years from the date of purchase; the right to replacement would operate for one year following purchase.
Consumers will pay in two ways: firstly, because the price of goods will rise to take account of such extra costs.
It might also be desirable, if it is relevant, to inform the consumer of the agent of the company producing the goods in the country of the consumer's residence so that there is an information channel about the consumer's rights under guarantee in the country of purchase.
That is a far cry from trying to draw up completely new EU-level laws regarding consumer guarantees and imposing these on the very different legal structures of the Member States.
It would be a real help to consumers and it would be legislation that shows that the Commission is living in the real world.
The Commissioner's feeble reply to the Parliament debate on Monday night shows that this is, in fact, very far from the case.
I am delighted that a European directive is devoted to improving consumer protection in Europe regarding the sale of consumer goods and associated guarantees.
The draft directive, amended by Parliament, is devoted to finding the best balance between the interest of the consumer and the responsibilities of the vendors and producers, without going as far as the wastage which could arise from a systematic exchange of all goods which have a fault, however minor, and which could in any case be repaired under the conditions of product quality maintenance.
If it is worth having more guarantees for the buyer and more transparency for the secondhand market, we should question the basis of enacting rules which belong to the "first hand' market in this case.
I fear that this assimilation would in fact be difficult to implement.
Furthermore, I would prefer a specific directive for secondhand goods to take account of the complexity of this area, whilst offering effective consumer protection.
I have abstained on Amendment No 24, because in view of Austrian national law, which provides for a guarantee period of just six months, I am opposed to a quadrupling of the period to two years.
It would be difficult not to agree with the aims of the draft directive on the sale of consumer goods and associated guarantees: to strengthen consumer protection and promote the quality of products.
The transfer to the producer and vendor of the burden of proof for lack of conformity also seems unacceptable to us, and contrary to the general principles of law.
The very notion of lack of conformity is defined in a very subjective way in the draft directive.
The amendment by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection only aggravates things by introducing the term "of consumer expectation' , which is even vaguer and therefore more likely to lead to many disputes.
As regards the possibility of offering the buyer a replacement of the product when there is a fault of conformity, this opens up dangerous leeway, especially in high technology sectors such as the car industry or sailing.
We think it is up to the vendor whether to offer repair or replacement, and failing that, the buyer can demand a reduction in price or termination of the contract.
Setting up a "service to the client' network in all European countries for cases of direct purchase of a product in another Member State also raises problems and must be reexamined.
If it is legitimate to seek to protect consumers adequately, this must not be at the expense of SMEs, by imposing unbearable constraints on them which would risk upsetting their permanently fragile financial balance.
In France these small companies, which number 800 000, are currently the best job creators.
In the period 1988-1995, they created 1.75 million jobs throughout the European Union.
The proposal for a directive on the sale of consumer goods and associated guarantees has presented us with fundamental problems because there is not enough information about relevant law in the Member States.
I have requested the European Commission more than once that alongside its proposals, it should carry out a comparative study of the law as regards the specific situation in the various Member States.
The second difficulty lies in the very varied interpretations which have been made of the proposal's content.
The proposed text and the amendments which have been presented are unlikely to provide a clear result in favour of the consumer without hindering commercial relations.
I think it is a serious matter if we are going down this road and turning this Parliament into a sort of consultative body, subject to the superior arbitration of a technical body created by laws and regulations which we vote on here in this House.
What we should have done was either to give up all participation by Parliament, or reverse the procedures and give Parliament the last word.
Graenitz report (A4-0009/98) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted for the report on general principles for the European Union's food legislation.
The premise of food legislation in Europe should be environmental protection, and the aim should be sustainable food production.
These proposals are all part of the same report, to which we give our support.
The Danish Social Democrats regard the European Parliament's report on food legislation as a step in that direction.
There is no doubt that the present Green Paper on the current food law situation is very timely, in view of the crisis in food safety and consumer protection caused by the BSE scandal.
Food is an issue of vital importance for the health and safety of consumers and for the quality of life of our citizens.
Even more important, however, are the liabilities of those industries which process and mass-produce primary products before they are put on the market, using substances which not only downgrade the quality of the foodstuffs but also damage the health of consumers, who are used as guinea pigs.
The main aim should be the protection of the health and safety of consumers.
However, it is also clear that future food legislation must guarantee consumer protection, while the internal market must be able to function without barriers.
Our group has tabled six amendments which target three main objectives.
The first stipulates the need to label foodstuffs sold in bulk clearly and legibly, so that consumers have clear information on their denomination, price and, if necessary, their origin.
In fact the text proposed by the rapporteur discriminates severely between products sold in "consumer units' and products sold in bulk.
Our second group of amendments specifies the role of the Community scientific committees.
Thirdly, our group rejects the principle that farmers and growers have the ultimate responsibility for the "scientific' proof of the sanitary quality of their products.
In fact, it is the operators in the farm produce and supply network who must produce this scientific proof.
We must not forget that agricultural products can undergo intrinsic changes in their sanitary quality as a result of the technological processes used for their transformation, particularly with the use of biotechnology.
Furthermore, farmers cannot have an in-depth knowledge of the sanitary quality of all the elements used in the production of their goods.
Our group calls for respect for the principle of a specific vertical regulation on labelling.
In fact, a number of agricultural products are subjected to specific transformation processes - I am referring particularly to the wine growing sector - or are sold directly in their original state to consumers (the fruit and vegetable sector) and should therefore come under a more restrictive vertical regulation than the horizontal directives which apply to the labelling of all food products.
As regards genetically modified organisms, our group recalls that it is necessary to inform the consumer clearly on the possible use of GMOs in the composition of food products.
The Commission has still not published the methods of application for this special labelling, and consumers are presently consuming food products with a GMO basis without being aware of it.
A recent survey in France by Sofres shows that 69 % of French people are against transgenic cultivation.
So it is up to us to allow the European consumer to exercise clearly and easily his or her free choice between products with GMOs and products without GMOs at the same price.
The principle of labelling has been retained.
However, the conditions of harvesting, storage and transport result in mixtures such that we cannot identify the presence or absence of GMOs in these imports.
This surcharge should be payable by those who change the rules of the game and who would like to impose a new mode of consumption.
The idea of a supplement payable by the end consumer in order to avoid the ingestion of genetically manipulated foodstuffs is absolutely unacceptable.
Finally, our group is opposed to multiplying structures, and therefore to the creation of a European agency for food safety, because it would mirror the work of the Community scientific committees and the monitoring bodies in the Member States, which have a key role to play.
As we have seen during the international fishing conferences, when the Commission takes the place of the Member States, it weakens their positions instead of strengthening them.
In paragraph 36 of the draft report the Commission is urged to bring an action against the Council because it has not observed the deadline set for 1 January 1995 for a decision on measures required to combat salmonella in laying hens.
He correctly stresses the need to inform consumers and prepare them for the arrival of the single currency.
He does not omit to highlight the difficulty which this monetary revolution could represent for vulnerable population groups such as older or disabled people.
As the need for information on the euro has now been largely acknowledged, it would be wise for this to be implemented effectively and quickly as our rapporteur rightly stresses.
This would mean that the impact on employment would be as favourable as possible.
However, I would like to make two points, the first concerning dual pricing.
My second point concerns the handling of the conversion of national currencies into euros.
Healthy and honest competition between all those involved in exchange operations seems to me to be sufficient to deal with this.
The regional differences between growth regions and depopulated areas could be increased.
Against the background of the above we have voted against the report.
The Commission's report outlines the basis of a number of initiatives designed to facilitate preparations for the introduction of the euro both in the private sector and in public sector administration.
In ten months' time, the euro will be an economic reality, and in three short years, the greatest monetary changeover in the history of the world will take place.
The central element which is absent, in my view, from the deliberations of the Commission and from whatever preparations are under way at the level of the European Union and its Member States, is who will bear the brunt directly or indirectly.
In such cases we could agree on certain special measures of positive discrimination in favour of SMEs, particularly for the smallest ones employing fewer than ten people, to enable them to cope with the increased costs of conversion to the euro.
I do not know precisely what significance should be given to this, but I am sure they would have done better to leave this text where it was.
According to the rapporteur, tourists will be happy to have their lives simplified by economic and monetary union and at the same time save on exchange charges.
In spite of everything, conversion costs are marginal in this context.
This shows that the introduction of EMU is the first step in the building of a federal EU in which tax rules will also be harmonized and decided by the EU instead of being managed by the national parliaments.
In the report, the rapporteur proposes a number of measures to facilitate the tourism industry's transition to the new currency.
We agree with the rapporteur on the strategic nature of tourism in general: as a sector for the creation of thousands of jobs; as the sector par excellence for the development of SMEs; as a means of economic development and recovery; and as a means of communication between different peoples.
More generally, and in contrast to the euphoria with which the rapporteur describes the situation in the sector, we are seeing the generalized use of flexible work patterns and the de facto promotion of 'elastic' labour relations.
This is because the problem in the tourist sector is broader, given its international nature and its many complexities, compared with other sectors where participation or not in the common currency will initially concern a limited range of people in relation to transborder transactions (chiefly relations between traders and a limited number of consumer agreements).
Even in relation to this sector the Commission provides not the slightest information as to how the countries outside the euro will evolve, nor what the inevitable repercussions will be.
Neither increased competition nor reduced indirect costs will lead to a substantial reduction in prices, as is demonstrated by the experience of liberalization and the granting of tax and other, financial, advantages.
In parallel, increased competition leads to the consolidation of capital, to the reduction of employment, to the intensification of exploitation and to the failure of small businesses.
Moreover, the 'gradual reduction in working time and the corresponding increase in leisure time' will simply result in the search for additional employment, if it is accompanied by a reduction in already low incomes.
Wolf report (A4-0070/98) Madam President, my group is very concerned about the impact of the introduction of the euro on small and medium-sized enterprises.
The equilibrium of SMEs could be seriously destabilized by the introduction of the euro, and clearly that is very worrying since this category of enterprises provides about two-thirds of the jobs in our countries.
The advantages and costs of monetary unification, if it finally takes place, will be very unequally spread between enterprises.
Under these conditions, small and medium-sized enterprises risk suffering a serious loss of competitiveness compared with large enterprises.
If, as my group believes, the stimulating effects of suppressing both the costs of conversion and the internal uncertainties about change are cancelled out by the recessive effect of the new monetary inflexibility and transition costs, the fall-off in growth will strike the most fragile enterprises first, and again these are SMEs.
I regret that the report does not sufficiently demonstrate the need to form a European economic government which should act as a counterbalance to the ECB to prevent purely monetary logic dominating in certain arbitration, when support for growth and employment should be guaranteed.
While the report mentions the democratic duty of the ECB to report at Community level, it would have been a good idea to clarify and reinforce the role and power of the European Parliament in dialogue with the ECB.
The explanatory statement compares three levels for convergence between the legal provisions of Member States.
In doing so, he raises a number of issues which are fundamental in a democratic process.
We could quote many of his views, but we will concentrate on the question: "What exactly is meant therefore by the requirement of central bank independence?' His reply is: ' The definitions given by the EMI in this report and, in particular, in the 1996 report (...) emphasize too one-sidedly 'independence' at the expense of 'openness' and democratic transparency.' Inevitably, the draft resolution is less specific.
Arroni, Torres Marques and Wolf reports The three reports on different aspects of the impending monetary union did not get my approval.
The resolution on the practical aspects of the introduction of the euro is the one I object to least.
However, it is extremely undesirable to let public information programmes about the euro deteriorate into advertising for the euro, as suggested in paragraphs 10 and 17.
The Torres Marques report looks very much like a blown-up balloon.
But these apply primarily to the tourist who travels through various countries in the European Union, and not so much to holiday-makers visiting a single country.
The target of price stability is judged one-sidedly in this report, as well as elsewhere.
My first objection is that establishing price stability as the only target will have a negative effect on economic development.
My second objection concerns short-sightedness: the economic development pursued will have to be sustainable in an ecological sense if it is to be of use to the next generation.
There is no obligation to vote for or against a particular text, nor even to express a view on a text.
However, if a Member wishes to indicate that they are present in the room, despite not wishing to take a view, then they have the option - not the obligation - to press their abstention button which shows that they were there, even though they did not wish to take a position on that particular text or amendment.
But what we do not need is two separate and different ways of not expressing a position for or against a particular text.
Mr Corbett and Mr Falconer, you have asked to speak.
I normally come here Monday through to Friday and am a diligent person, as are 99 % of this House.
That is where the matter should rest until the Bureau reviews the silliness that it has put us in at the present time.
Any debate about improving safety is bound to turn around the facts that we have already heard several times today: 45 000 dead and 1.6 million injured every year, or 123 deaths every day on Europe's roads.
This Parliament has to stand by the decision it took in 1990 and fight for it to be implemented.
We do not take this view, however, seeing that contemporary society could not survive without it, and given that accidents do not all happen at the same time and in the same place.
I am pleased at the number of important and fundamental suggestions and practical proposals for improving road safety.
I personally feel that an improvement is urgently needed not just because it can be shown that the annual economic cost of road accidents is over 100 billion ECU, not to mention the unquantifiable and immeasurable human suffering involved, but because like anyone else I would like to feel safe on the roads of neighbouring countries.
Mr President, I wish to begin by welcoming the report and certainly the intention behind the Commission's concern to see action in this matter.
I strongly agree with the proposal to limit the level of alcohol to 0.5 mg/ml, along with proposals to ban the sale of alcohol in service stations and the standardization of the apparatus of breathalysers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the Commission's initiative to launch an action programme to promote road safety in the EU.
The number of people being killed on the roads has been mentioned several times today.
In closing, I would like to underline the importance of having secure frameworks for traffic, the safety of citizens, and so on.
I am pleased but not surprised that there is strong concurrence between the opinions of Parliament and the Commission on the matters under consideration, not only the desirability of enhanced standards of performance in terms of road safety but also the general strategy to be adopted at Union level in order to achieve that improvement.
I am glad to note in particular that there is agreement on some of the new elements we have introduced in the most recent communication, such as the development of an integrated European Union information system on road safety which will assist with the identification of particular problems and be available to Member States to encourage further efforts by them for road safety strategies.
The need to moderate speed has been emphasized by several speakers in this debate.
The need to combat drink-driving is evident and I welcome the support given by Parliament yet again to the Commission proposal, which is now nine years old, for the universal introduction of a lower tolerated level of blood alcohol content.
So far as the harmonization of penalties is concerned, as an individual I would most certainly endorse those sentiments expressed by Members that would favour the harmonization and universal enforcement of penalties across the European Union.
However, as Parliament will understand, this is a question that arises under the so-called third pillar and largely remains an intergovernmental issue.
Unfortunately the Commission is not yet in a position to take an initiative on this matter.
There is broad agreement too on the efforts being made to develop safety rating systems in order to provide consumers with accurate information on the safety standards of their vehicles in any particular category of cars, and broad agreement on the need to take full account of the very high economic and financial cost of road accidents and to use a cost/benefit approach on road safety measures.
On this issue there will be a specific communication from the Commission in the very near future.
Despite these considerations, we could set indicative targets with all the best intentions in the world of achieving them.
I would, however, remind the House of the Commission's conviction that if the measures proposed in our communication were followed and implemented, the Community could reasonably look forward to the number of deaths being reduced by 7 000 by the year 2000 and by around 27 000 by the year 2010.
However, line 2704 covers other important priorities for our transport policy which are shared by this House and following the suggestion made in the report would mean robbing Peter to pay Paul.
I am sure that on reflection no one in this House or in the Committee on Transport and Tourism would want that.
The budget reduction will inevitably cause delays for some of the measures we had hoped to support this year.
That is highly regrettable but realistic since our future actions will have to be based on the money available to us.
I hope those responsible for calculating and setting the budget will in future heed the fact that there are few issues more important to the general citizenry of the European Union than trying to advance safety on our roads.
The budget should reflect that priority.
However, in addition to that criterion, other important factors should be taken into account, such as the cost/benefit ratio of the measures, their added value arising from the European dimension or the state of progress already made at Community or Member State level.
We have to be very careful, therefore, about putting any form of education or instruction in driving licences or other documents that might encourage people who, with the best intentions, would try to give first aid without the necessary expertise.
The Commissioner knows that it is not unusual for the Commission to come up with an additional budget during the course of the year, and my concrete question on behalf of our committee is, if this happens this year, if it proves to be necessary - and we have indications that it will be necessary - will the Commissioner take the opportunity to obtain enough money for the necessary research?
I would be grateful for a specific answer from the Commissioner to these three points either now or later.
Mr President, there is a check list in our communication and we are happy to receive questions, demands, correspondence and contacts of various kinds in order to try to ensure, virtually on a week-byweek basis that we can provide reports on the progress being made in the implementation of the 65 or so different measures that are at the back of the communication.
Not only do we readily respond to those questions, we actually welcome them simply because they are a way of keeping up the pressure and drawing public and political attention to the need to make progress on that.
So far as the budget is concerned it is not so much a matter of noblesse oblige as of vitesse oblige .
The difference between them and us working at Community level is, of course, that they have direct sovereignty and charge of enforcement systems and an assortment of other means of trying to ensure that their targets are actually fulfilled.
Fourthly, she inadvertently misled the House in her original contribution this morning, because it is not true to say that the rules concerning insulin-dependent diabetic drivers are only being applied in the United Kingdom.
As I pointed out in my letter to her and to many other honourable Members and others who have communicated with me on the subject of diabetic drivers, the basic power to interpret and apply the law rests with Member States, not with the Commission.
The Member States are acting on the basis of the most informed medical expert advice.
I would be obliged if honourable Members, before accusing me of ignoring their questions, were to take into account what I have provided them with at length on previous occasions, as well as the time I have available for answering questions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Members will need no reminding of the full horror of the Estonia tragedy back in 1994 and will recall that the December Council meeting took a number of very important steps forward on maritime and in particular passenger- ferry safety, including a unanimous decision to call upon the Commission to bring forward a proposal on passenger registration.
I for one - and I think many of us in this Chamber - am delighted that this is exactly what Commissioner Kinnock did, in a very speedy and efficient way.
Indeed in some Member States these provisions are already complied with.
It is also important to remind us why this information is so necessary.
But we feel that Article 8 is still ambiguous as regards full information being provided to shore before the ship departs.
I am not in any way denigrating the work of our Commissioner here - he has done us proud, and has probably done more than most people in Europe to advance the cause of ferry safety.
I would commend the proposal and the amendments to the House.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate my colleague on his very serious attempt to achieve the necessary convergence of opinion between Parliament and the Council on the institution of directives which aim in good faith to ensure ferry safety.
Mr President, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Watts, for the ambitious work he has done throughout the discussion of this report, a piece of work which means that we will now have passenger lists for ferry traffic throughout the EU.
Parliament has made demands for extensive measures, and in various contexts the Commission has put forward proposals to improve safety.
The Council's common position says that the information should be collected before departure, but not necessarily communicated to the registrar until 30 minutes after the ferry has sailed.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism says that this information should be submitted before the ferry leaves port.
I would be grateful for a comment from the Commissioner on this point.
It is limited to 20 nautical miles between two ports, below which passenger lists are not considered necessary.
That is why I support the amendments proposed by the Committee on Transport and Tourism and our British colleague, Mark Watts, in which he proposes to reestablish equal treatment for ferries and trains despite the initial refusal of the Commission to do so.
It considers there to be greater risks in navigating the Channel than in using the Channel tunnel.
The account of the intervention of fire-fighting teams during the fire in the Channel tunnel on 18 November 1996 indicates that rescue operations were hindered by the lack of precise information on the number of passengers travelling on the train.
There are three possible solutions which would guarantee the safety of these two modes of transport and reestablish balanced conditions for competition in those areas where the opening of the Tunnel seriously weakened the position of the ferries.
Firstly, the Commission and the Council should accept the amendments which, I hope, Parliament will adopt and which impose the same obligation on both modes of transport.
Pending this new text, the application of the text on cross-Channel sea links currently under discussion ought to be postponed until the second directive is adopted.
Bearing in mind the fact that 57 % of passengers on the Calais-Dover ferry complete their return journey within one day, it is easy to understand how the introduction of new arrangements, such as those we have seen today, would mean that this mode of transport would be penalized, thus upsetting the equilibrium of entire regions.
Mr President, the background to this report is clearly the two devastating accidents involving first the Herald of Free Enterprise and more recently the Estonia and the international obligations which Member States undertook in the SOLAS regulation agreed in 1995.
Ferry companies in the UK already register the number of passengers.
The main problem with the proposal in its present form is that it will pose practical problems for ferry operations, particularly crossChannel operations, to process the details of names, addresses and special needs in the event of accident, in what is already a very competitive market.
The Commission has made a very strong case that the background to this proposal is to increase safety.
My message to the Commission is very simple: the minimum must be a level, competitive playing field ensuring maximum safety for passengers, regardless of whether they are travelling by ferry or by Eurotunnel.
A situation in which passengers travelling by Eurotunnel were placed at a disadvantage would be totally unacceptable.
Mr President, there is always one person who is on the other side of the argument and today it seems as if it is going to be me.
I personally always have difficulty when it comes to restricting the rights of the individual.
But I believe that any legislation that is brought forward for safety should be simple, practical and easily implemented.
The Road Transport Association has said in a statement that registration of passengers on ferries on the Dover-Calais route in particular will cause considerable inconvenience.
The Council and the Commission were accused, in his word, of 'panic' .
It is ten years last week since the appalling disaster of the sinking of the Herald of Free Enterprise at Zeebrugge, and it is three-and-a-half years since the Estonia went down with a loss of over 950 lives.
Since most of the amendments reiterate suggestions made in the first reading debate, I feel obliged to clarify the reasons for the Commission's support for the Council's common position and also to reassure the House that the specific concerns addressed in the original report were properly taken into account.
To achieve this and to reassure the public that roll-on/roll-off ferry services in Europe are provided with the best possible safety standards and to sustain public confidence in ferry services, I am glad to report that last month the Commission adopted a new proposal relating to the operation of regular roll-on/roll-off ferry and high-speed passenger craft services in the Community.
I sincerely hope that this proposal will encourage the House and, more important, further reinforce maritime safety.
Articles 8 and 9 of the common position will ensure that information on passengers will always be available when needed, while allowing for the proper handling of journeys of less than two hours and, at the same time, providing the necessary flexibility for those who have to set up registration systems.
As I promised in May of last year, I asked my services to examine the merits of a Community measure to apply passenger registration principles to vehicles using undersea railway tunnels.
I really believe that the issue is best pursued with the two Member State governments that are directly and uniquely involved, and Community action on this would not be appropriate.
Naturally, the Commission seeks to achieve equitable conditions of competition between transport modes by a variety of means, but for very practical reasons, that cannot mean legislating for one sector simply because another mode has become subject to a law which imposes new obligations.
One final element I wish to add relates to the capacity of ferry operators to cope with this legislation.
The differences between us should not obscure the general agreement that exists on the principle of this measure applying throughout European Union waters.
I welcome his measure on licensing, which I am sure we all look forward to debating.
However, I have to warn him that, unfortunately, I am sure we will be returning to the issue of Le Shuttle.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11: 30 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to be reporting to you today on the views of the Committee on External Economic Relations concerning the negotiations on the multilateral agreement on investments, usually known as the MAI.
We are also specifically working on the assumption that when the agreement in concluded, the MAI will be submitted to the European Court of Justice for an opinion, and that we will be consulted by the Commission and the Council under the assent procedure.
A region must retain the right to decide, on the basis of democratic control, whether it wishes to attract major projects or whether it would rather promote locally-oriented small and medium-sized companies based on local consumption.
We consider that the national and international procedures that already exist are adequate.
I would also like to express my heartfelt thanks to the other committees asked for an opinion, and to the committee secretariat for their commitment, and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for this report.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has drafted an opinion and come up with several observations, some of which are my own, while others were added in committee.
Our third point is obvious: for the sake of coherence, the multilateral agreement on investments should respect the Treaty on European Union and the decisions of the Uruguay Round and other international treaties.
The role of the European Parliament is very important in this.
It has an obligation to influence the contents of a treaty as important as the MAI, which runs the risk of being negotiated and concluded without any democratic participation.
In its conclusions the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights calls on the European Parliament to state that it cannot agree to endorse any agreement which would have the effect of rolling back EU legislation and insists, therefore, on the use of exception clauses and on the insertion of a regional economic integration organization clause.
It demands that the proposals should be compatible with international conventions already ratified by the EU, and draws attention to the serious problems of consistency and legal security that may be engendered by including intellectual property within the scope of the multilateral agreement on investments, given the complexity of the subject which falls within the remit of the WIPO and, more recently, the World Trade Organization.
Finally, it would call on the Commission, the Council and the Member States to submit, pursuant to the procedure provided for in Article 228, the whole of the definitive draft of the MAI to the Court of Justice for full examination before it is ratified.
The Television without Frontiers Directive and the Media II programme would then just be fit for the shredder.
The MAI could have very profound consequences for the fisheries sector both from the social and environmental perspectives.
The Fisheries Committee was concerned that the MAI could force the EU to alter its approach to fisheries management so as to conform to the wishes of some other countries or indeed even companies.
The Committee was adamant that the EU must maintain its ability to establish and implement policies for the conservation of fish stocks and the management of Community fisheries.
Similarly, the concerns of the EU are probably similar to the concerns shared around the world.
Mr President, firstly I would very much like to thank the rapporteur, both personally and on behalf of my group.
We are calling on national governments and thus parliaments to withhold their consent to the completion of the negotiations and the conclusion of this agreement in May.
Mr President, I want to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, on his excellent report.
This agreement offers guarantees to companies and states, and its rules are expected to be applied globally.
Anyway, having experienced what an intense process it was to draft this report (because of the many amendments presented - more than 80 amendments in the Committee on External Economic Relations), and despite the fact that it in no way reflects the view of the Group of the European People's Party, we request a vote in favour of this report because we think it represents an unavoidable compromise.
I am pleased that Sir Leon Brittan is here, so we can ask him to listen to us, take note of what we say, and bear it in mind.
The Council should be consulted on the conclusion of the MIA on behalf of the EU, according to Article 228 paragraph 3 section 2 of the Treaty, according to the assent procedure.
Our group is therefore in favour of the report.
World trade increases at a rate of 7 % to 8 % a year, but investments increase twice as fast.
International investments are becoming more important than international trade.
The MAI is a successful initiative for multilateral agreements on investments, initially between the OECD countries, but with the ability to extend the treaty to include other countries.
My last point, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the powers of the European Union in entering into international treaties.
Article 113 offers the Commission no explicit authority to sign the MAI on behalf of the Member States.
Yet the European Communities do take part in the negotiations as partners on behalf of the Member States.
We are therefore asking the Member States not to approve the final text as long as the European Communities are not guaranteed full membership of the MAI.
The agreement was to be concluded, in fact, without either public opinion or the parliaments being in a position to be fully aware of its implications.
The MAI could give rise to a substantial erosion of the sovereignty of states, which would be transferred to businesses able to challenge any choice of country in which they are investing, denouncing it as discriminatory, as a form of a priori expropriation of a potential future profit.
The suspicion that the choice was made because only the 29 richest countries belong to the OECD is sufficiently strong and widespread to seriously risk the very credibility of the institutions seeking legitimation as regulators of globalization, starting with the WTO itself.
The mobilization generated by the "discovery' of the MAI in European civilian society, particularly in the world of culture, and in the USA, where the NGOs have begun a real campaign of denouncement, has already had the effect of postponing the conclusion of the agreement.
The unanimous vote, apart from one abstention, in the Committee on External Economic Relations and the committees called upon to give an opinion, whose amendments have been included in full, will I hope serve as advice for the European negotiators in their measures designed, if not to reject the agreement itself (as not just our group but also many others in this Parliament would like) at least to drastically review the wording of the draft under discussion.
The current draft does not tackle this issue at all for three reasons.
Secondly, all the basic principles and conditions proposed result in political institutions being deprived of the normal prerogatives they would have in a democratic regime, and also result in legally subjecting democratic institutions and governments to the strategies and interests of transnational companies by the specific creation of arbitration bodies in which these very companies could have the countries condemned.
Thirdly, as Mrs Castellina has just said, the discussions currently underway in the OECD obviously belong to the wealthy club; the most vulnerable countries - developing countries - are excluded, when in fact they are the ones most at the mercy of the multinationals' strategies.
The adoption of new legislation on fiscal, environmental and social issues could be seen to have the same effect as expropriation, which UNICE calls rampant expropriation, in that it would cause a gradual erosion of the conditions on which the decision to invest was taken and would automatically bring with it a right to financial compensation.
The answer is self-evident: it would be unacceptable to us.
The developing countries, which are excluded from the negotiations, will have clauses imposed on them which often oppose their own real interests.
Furthermore, our group will not hesitate to vote for his report, but it would also be good if the Council took a stand.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate the Committee on External Economic Relations.
So, three years after negotiations started, we in the European Parliament are today having the first debate on the MAI to be held in a parliamentary setting.
Here I would mention in particular: the condemnation of legislation which has an impact beyond a country's own borders; the banning of any form of competition which aims to attract investment by lowering social standards or rules for environmental protection; and the inability of an investment arbitration body to dismantle the clauses of a common policy, such as policies on agriculture or fishing, to attack cultural exception, or to challenge the decision of an internal or community jurisdiction which has the strength of having had judgement passed on it.
Madam President, we too welcome the debate on this report.
With a few exceptions we also find it a very interesting and highly intelligent piece of work.
The measures for regulating foreign investment called for in the report must not, however, be allowed to generate a situation in which open competition is possible in every area of culture.
Parliament has to be congratulated on producing this report.
According to the trade union advisory committee from the OECD, the results of their studies suggest that with a few notable exceptions the national contact points are reactive rather than proactive and do little to fulfil their terms of reference.
Madam President, the marked annual increase of 11 % in direct foreign investment is impressive, and far in excess of that of the other basic economic variables, standing at twice the growth of trade and four times the growth of products over the past decade.
Since the free movement of capital is one element in making maximum use of resources, the growth of trade has not been hampered by the free movement of products and services, as might have been feared and would be undesirable.
This concern is felt in the parliamentary committees of the European Parliament and in artistic and academic circles alike.
I remind you that there are other national representatives who are seeking their own exceptions, such as the Americans for certain sectors for which they have special regulations which are favourable to its citizens within the framework of the OECD.
Mr President, I welcome this agreement very much in that it works for non-discrimination as far as investment is concerned, for application of the rule of law in terms of signatory Member States, and it is there to increase international investments and thereby also international trade.
What concerns me is that when one starts to look through this agreement - I have tried to read it on several occasions, although it is far from finalized at present - it raises a large number of questions.
My other comment, which I make somewhat wryly, is to ask whether there will still be discrimination against home companies in terms of incentives for investment made by some countries which tend to discriminate in favour of foreign investment.
Finally, I wish to ask when the agreement will now be signed - it was supposed to be in May, and it looks as though it is being delayed - and whether it will go through the assent procedure in the European Parliament?
In the current process of globalization, the interests of the people are being trampled underfoot; with the MAI, the governments themselves are held up to ridicule and they have nothing more than obligations towards the multinationals.
Whereas since 1995 negotiations have been held in the utmost secrecy, the reality of the MAI has now burst upon us, triggering a huge protest movement in the United States, Canada, India and Europe.
Through the Prime Minister, the French Government has indicated that an agreement of this kind cannot in any way challenge the freedom of governments to implement their choices.
It is my opinion that the European Parliament - the first elected body to debate the MAI, thanks in particular to its REX committee - should call on the governments of the Member States not to sign the MAI, to adjourn negotiations and to allow for a preliminary broad public debate involving national parliaments.
Madam President, I would like to say a warm thank you to my colleague Mr Kreissl-Dörfler for really giving us something to think about - not only us, but also the national parliaments - so that our eyes have really been opened to this.
But they also say that it is not just economic interests which are at stake here, but also environmental interests, social interests, national rights to self-determination, and so on.
In any case, the question this raises more than ever is the issue of the democratic control of international institutions, if we wish to avoid harmful consequences for the people.
This leads to a lack of transparency and contradictions between agreements.
A multilateral agreement on investments in an OECD context makes sense, therefore.
The OECD nations are responsible for most of the direct foreign investments, and agreement is reached much more quickly and efficiently within the OECD context than within the WTO context.
On important policy areas such as the environment, and in the social and cultural sphere, it could have a negative effect.
The report puts a little too much emphasis on 'overprotection' , for instance in relation to culture.
Despite a few minor flaws, I would like to give my full support to this report, and I offer the rapporteur my sincerest congratulations.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement has very serious implications for the future of the European Union and our people.
Let us not ignore the danger; it is great, not only in the environmental but also in the social context.
I would like to conclude by saying that of course we need to set up a global organization which is more transparent and more rational about investments, but several conditions must be met in order to do this.
Furthermore, the OECD agreement is already subject to a democratic ratification process.
The text is also unacceptable in terms of intellectual property rights and the cultural sector, especially the audiovisual sector.
And now the text of the treaty risks wasting all these efforts.
It gives the Commission power over my country's social security system, environment, labour laws, health policy and psychology, which, according to this report, we should not be prepared to yield up to a supranational entity.
The MAI treaty deals with ridding capitalism of all hindrances to exploitation, in the new regions and in the spiritual sphere too, including those countries that have not been invited to participate in OECD negotiations.
The EU is capitalism's answer to Europe.
Providing a framework of certainty for investors may certainly be one of the fundamental conditions for enabling them to pay greater attention to non-traditional recipients as well - in other words, countries considered less reliable than others by the international investors themselves.
Firstly, there is the problem of democracy and transparency.
This is unacceptable, as the outcome of an agreement of this type are intended to have profound, long-term effects in every country of the world.
Secondly, we dispute the view that the OECD is the appropriate place for an agreement intended to be extended to almost every country in the world.
In this way, the requirements and problems of the developing nations in particular will once again not be given the slightest consideration, despite the fact that the poorest countries will suffer the most serious consequences.
Madam President, I note with pleasure that organizations have had more success than the negotiators in trying to create debate about this agreement, which the negotiators have also tried to do.
But what has been said on some points about the consequences of the agreement is very exaggerated.
Madam President, I am pleased that Sir Leon Brittan is present at this debate, because many things have been said about the MAI agreements, and the only part I will reiterate is the necessity to remain vigilant beyond the problems of culture.
We in this establishment and in the Commission know very well that culture is shrinking constantly, to the point of only including the less strategic sectors and leaving behind the audiovisual sector, publishing and anything involving information highways.
But that is not all.
It is a matter for concern that in the OECD's draft multilateral agreement on investments there is a large discrepancy between the rights and obligations of the investors.
It is important to avoid either the state or the investors speculating in social dumping.
It is important to bear in mind that the relaxation of provisions relating to direct foreign investments should not just be to the advantage of the investors and the country of origin.
It should also contribute to securing sustainable economic development in the host country.
It would have been useful for us to achieve the creation and establishment of an international right of investment which would give confidence to investors and a feeling of security to everyone - and that is the aim of the MAI.
If the MAI leads to an increase in disputes it is clearly going in the wrong direction.
The other countries are in practice excluded, as is the intention, because when similar agreements were discussed in the WTO there was far too much opposition from other countries in the world.
In the OECD countries negotiations have taken place in secret with the minimum possible parliamentary supervision.
The fact that the negotiations currently under way have given rise to such intense debate and opposing views demonstrates that a global economic issue of such vital importance needs plenty of time for exhaustive dialogue under conditions of transparency and continuous parliamentary supervision.
Fortunately, multinational companies and international groups of enterprises already have enormous power and it is not permissible to give them any priority over national enterprises, such as the automatic right of recourse to international arbitration or the right to bypass legislation aimed at ensuring equal treatment.
Finally, I believe that the European Parliament must defend and protect its own rights and powers and those of the European Union from all attempts at curtailment through this agreement on investments.
This agreement was drawn up in secrecy by large financial interests without including the national parliaments and the European Parliament and even without including the governments themselves.
It is a multi-faceted ideological assault by large multinational corporations and, as has already been said, the first step in the formation of a global government of multinationals.
Mr President, the compatibility of the MAI with environmental protection has not yet been sufficiently addressed by the negotiating parties.
The clean development mechanism is essential to that protocol's success and has the potential to run directly contrary to the MAI.
A binding environment clause should be included which will offer at least similar safeguards to GATT Article 20 and not prove to be an inadequate voluntary clause, such as Article 114 in the NAFTA agreement.
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the rapporteur's request to the Member States of the European Union not to sign the MAI without a broad public debate, for that is the only way to ensure the total transparency essential in this case.
I hope and believe that all the governments of the European Union will realize this.
Finally, I repeat once again that on this issue the European Parliament should display its avant-garde role.
They also need to raise the issue of the effect of the liberalization on the ability of developing countries to adopt the poverty focused programmes which are essential to their progress.
It is also the case, as others have said, that employment, environment and labour rights need to be an integral part of the process, not bolted on as some kind of afterthought.
The rules on investment should be about more than economic liberalization and should include a very clear commitment to sustainable development and to long-term quality investments.
The European Parliament's decision to hold this debate has the importance that Mrs Castellina ascribed to it.
The MAI negotiation is one between essentially developed countries.
It is because of that and because of my view, which I very strongly hold, that to have an agreement that adequately reflects the interests of the developing countries as well as the developed ones, there should be discussions in the WTO leading to a negotiation in the WTO which will take account of the MAI negotiation but which need not be the same.
So far we have only reached agreement on discussion in the WTO and the obstacle to going beyond that to a negotiation in the WTO is the fact that some developing countries have resisted that.
As it happens, I do not believe that the MAI negotiation need result in a conclusion that is inimical to the interests of developing countries.
The deadline set for negotiations in the OECD to come to a conclusion is the end of April 1998.
Anybody who has ever been involved in negotiations of this kind will know that a month and a half at the end of a negotiation is a very important and crucial time in which much can be done.
But I can tell you that we will only reach a conclusion if we are able to accommodate the legitimate interests of the European Union.
We agree on the need to safeguard in the MAI the right of contracting parties to take action to protect the environment, not only now but in the future.
The draft resolution also deals extensively with the aspects of culture and intellectual property rights under the MAI, and rightly so.
The objective of preserving European cultural identity through specific policy measures and actions, in particular in the audiovisual sector, is fully shared by the Commission.
There is one thing I want to assure this House of beyond a doubt: I had the privilege and the honour of conducting the Uruguay Round negotiations on the part of the European Union.
On the last day of those negotiations, when the whole of the world was standing by and wanting a conclusion to those negotiations, we were under intense pressure from the United States to agree to provisions relating to audiovisual and cultural matters which would have weakened and put at risk our own audiovisual and cultural policy.
With political will, taking account of the points rightly raised in this House, we can reach a conclusion which will be in the interests of the European Union as a major investor outside the European Union, in the interests of the developing countries and in the interests of all the policies that we hold dear.
At the present stage the negotiations are in a difficult phase.
The OECD ministerial meeting to be held at the end of April has to set out the course.
In the meantime the Community and its Member States have a clear interest in having an MAI that protects our interests, protects the interests of developing countries and secures our ability to continue with the policies which we hold dear.
If we proceed boldly but coolly, ready to defend our interests but also recognizing that the right kind of MAI on the right conditions is in the interests of the European Union, then we shall be doing something that reflects the will of the peoples of Europe.
I asked Sir Leon Brittan to shed some light on the procedure because there might be a conflict of interest between the European Communities and the Member States that want to become partners.
Will there be unanimity in the Council on this before signing, or is it possible that there is... (The President cut off the speaker ) I thought I had answered the question.
There has to be unanimous support of the Member States and there has to be assent given by this Parliament, as I said in my speech.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Question Time (Commission) Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to begin questions to the Commission, 35 minutes later than stated in the agenda.
Mr McMahon, I was present myself this morning when you raised that question, and in accordance with Parliament's services, we contacted the Commission.
The majority have adopted specific equal opportunities programmes whereas the Nordic countries and the United Kingdom are using a mainstreaming approach.
Even though approaches differ the measures undertaken are very similar: promotion of greater participation of women in fields where they are under-represented, training and vocational training of unemployed women and women returners and the promotion of female entrepreneurship and other related measures.
At all phases and levels of decision-making the aim is to have a) balanced participation of women and men and b) a partnership which includes representatives of competent authorities and bodies in the field of equality between women and men.
It is foreseen that the European Social Fund activity will be based on five policy fields: active labour market policy, promotion of social inclusion, lifelong learning, anticipation and facilitating economic and social change and equal opportunities for men and women.
In addition to the specific equal opportunities priority in the social fund regulation it is intended to implement the mainstreaming approach through all policy fields and to build on actual experience in the regional and local development context including local employment initiatives and territorial employment pacts.
I hope that a clear message in favour of positive action will be given in the new regulation.
In this connection Member States are required to take measures which will reduce the gender gap in unemployment as well as in occupational segregation, to raise the levels of care services which very often represent a key barrier for women who would like to return to work and to facilitate the return process.
The Commission expects that particular attention will be paid to these guidelines in the action plans which are being prepared by the Member States just now and which will be presented at the Cardiff European Council in June.
Bear one thing in mind: it is a Treaty obligation, and since the job summit all the Prime Ministers and the Presidents of the 15 Member States have signed a personal commitment to advance equal opportunities and to provide specific activities to deal with this.
Commissioner, the autonomous region of Valencia has Objective 1 status but it has still not been decided if it will retain that status, because it is a few points above or below the figure of 75 % of Community income.
I would like to point out that the regulations that will apply to the structural funds will be up for approval before the Commission on 18 March and after that we will see how things progress.
I understand there is plenty of information that some supermarket chains in the UK have publicly declared that they have excluded Irish beef from their shelves for the moment.
That is not the case: the Green Paper, whose proposals were adopted on 4 March, sets out a methodology to assess whether the effects of restrictions on crossborder commercial communications are proportional to the public-interest objectives that such measures are intended to achieve.
The communication has also established an expert group of Member State representatives to examine the differences in national regulations with a view to exploring the scope for agreement on mutual recognition in this field.
The communication sets up a framework where the issue that the honourable Member has raised could be discussed openly in order to resolve internal-market problems that may arise.
The press are confusing this consultative exercise with an infringement case that the honourable parliamentarian has referred to against a provision of the French loi Evin .
This restriction on retransmissions has led to sports bodies in other Member States breaking their sponsorship contracts with alcohol beverage producers, for fear of having their events not transmitted in France, and therefore losing their TV rights.
The Commission seeks to ensure the highest level of public health protection and to that end is taking the utmost care in assessing the proportionality of this restriction.
I want to ask you whether you do not agree with me that what we have here in relation to the loi Evin in France is in Europe what we are protesting against over the laws which are blocking trade with Cuba.
This request followed a preliminary assessment of the current ticketing arrangements, which led the Commission to believe that the organizing committee might be abusing a dominant position on the World Cup ticketing market, contrary to Article 86 of the EC Treaty.
This could create massive problems from the point of view of policing, from balance and the whole potential for crowd problems.
I am sorry that I cannot give a definitive answer as to exactly what is happening.
Question No 45 by Gary Titley (H-0229/98) Subject: Anti-dumping duties In view of the repeated anti-dumping complaints by Eurocoton, does the Commission intend to revise its procedures so that serial complaints will no longer be possible?
The current Eurocoton complaint followed the rejection by the Council of the Commission's proposal for definitive anti-dumping duties on unbleached cotton fabrics in May 1997.
Following receipt of the new complaint the Commission examined whether it was lodged by a sufficiently representative proportion of Community producers and whether it contained prima facie evidence of dumping and resulting injury.
Since these requirements were met the Commission decided to open a new investigation on 11 July 1997 as it was obliged to do under EU anti-dumping legislation which is in conformity with WTO rules.
Grey cotton fabrics is the only case in the history of the EU anti-dumping regulation where a second complaint was lodged after the rejection of a Commission proposal by the Council.
I certainly accept that any complaint that is made imposes a burden on the interested parties but I do not accept that the receipt of a second or a third complaint is contrary to the rules of the WTO.
I am a bit reluctant to regard the lodging of a complaint as something that itself should be looked at in the context of Community interests.
But I assure the honourable Member that in the case of this complaint the whole question of Community interests and the balancing of any Community interests - in an opposite sense compared to the damage done to the producers who have made the complaint - is something that will be looked into and has been very fully looked into.
We have looked to see if there has been dumping or injury - and we all know to whom injury is alleged to have been done.
We have done so in this case.
I am not in a position to announce a final outcome yet but I can assure the honourable Member that all the points she has raised have been taken very fully into consideration.
I have received complaints against the anti-dumping measures.
I would like to ask: are not both developing countries and some small companies who depend on imported cotton being disadvantaged very considerably?
There is no doubt at all that there are people within the European Union who complain that they are suffering from dumping and there are others who complain that they would suffer even more if anti-dumping measures were taken.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schörling's questions relate to Article 7 of Council Directive 98/662 of 11 December 1989 on Arrangements for veterinary checks on intra-Community trade with regard to the single market, with particular reference to the checks to be carried out at the relevant destination.
For products originating from another Member State, the same regulations apply as for products originating in the Member State concerned.
No less than 25 % of all beef, pig-meat and poultry consignments have incomplete certificates, and 20 % of the meat consignments which have the correct certificates prove to be contaminated with salmonella.
The Commission approved these programmes in its 1995 decision.
Commissioner, today the Commission has been presented with questions on contamination, meat hygiene, BSE, brown rot, and so on.
I want to point out to the Commissioner that the FAO has called on the European Union to increase and strengthen its prevention and monitoring systems for the transformation and transmission of diseases in the area of agricultural health.
Mr President, I am pleased to answer this question because it leads on to the Commission's general policy in this area.
With regard to shortcomings which have actually been discovered, especially in shipments of poultry from one Member State in particular, consultation involving that Member State and the Swedish government is currently in progress, and it is hoped that this consultation will yield agreement on how such shortcomings can be avoided in future.
Question No 47 by Sören Wibe (H-0210/98) Subject: Salmonella inspections Since joining the EU, Sweden has discovered on several occasions that meat imported from other EU countries has been contaminated with salmonella despite the existence of a certificate from the exporting country stating that the consignment in question was salmonella-free.
According to our information, meat imported into Sweden from another Member State is checked by the recipient under a self-checking regime.
Furthermore, the Swedish authorities carried out special monitoring on a trial basis between 1 March and 1 September 1997, in order to check that the supplementary guarantee regime was being correctly applied.
Secondly, the Nordic method has up to now been used in Sweden, and Sweden wants this system to be recognized as a reference method as well.
However, as that is a Council requirement, or rather as it is stipulated in the regime adopted by Council, the Council must consider whether to accept this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to emphasise that the Commission intends to take the Protocol on protection and welfare of animals annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam very seriously.
The most important agricultural policy objectives are, first, to ensure that agricultural production reflects the wishes and requirements of consumers, and, second, to increase the competitiveness of European producers on international markets as well.
The approach set out in Agenda 2000 in July last year specified that the Commission wishes to improve the competitiveness of European agriculture both within the internal market and on the international market, whilst preventing the formation of new surpluses like the butter or grain mountains of the past.
We therefore proposed in Agenda 2000, as part of a new policy for rural areas, that there should be more funds for agroenvironmental measures as a second arm of agricultural policy, and also more funds for animal welfare.
However, please bear in mind that the Community has already adopted a panoply of animal protection and animal welfare measures, and that the European Union is undeniably doing a good job in this area by international standards.
Regarding transport, measures in this area are concentrated more on improving transport conditions and less on a complete ban on transportation, as transport will always be necessary, whatever happens.
With a view to improving animal protection for cattle exports, the Council recently approved a proposal which will make the payment of export refunds conditional on compliance with EU animal protection and transport rules.
The Management Committee on Trade Mechanisms recently approved the corresponding implementing Regulation, so we can now adopt that Regulation.
I wish to begin by welcoming the Commissioner's clear commitment to taking the protocol very seriously.
I give you one example: on 7 April this year we fear that in the Eid-El-Kabir in France the French authorities will not be enforcing the animal welfare regulations he quite rightly points to.
It is all very well having these regulations but we must surely all work together to ensure they are complied with.
Turning to the question of poultry housing in general, a proposal will be presented to the Commission tomorrow in which we report on experience to date with poultry cages and provide for a whole series of measures for improving poultry housing.
Commissioner, in relation to your answer on animal welfare, which you yourself consider to be closely linked to animal health, I would like to ask whether the Commission does not think it would be a good thing - and necessary - to also extend the measures to protect animal welfare (and therefore animal health) to the process by which animals arrive at the slaughterhouse, when it is necessary to observe appropriate hygiene.
The hide is the first link and, at the same time, its quality is essential to the tanners.
Thank you, Mrs Ferrer.
The transport subsidy element has already been eliminated, and there is already a lower subsidy per animal for livestock than for meat export, so that only 10 % of total exports are now in the form of livestock.
Mr President, Miss McIntosh, in Agenda 2000, the Commission suggested cutting the number of objectives for Community initiatives and concentrating measures on transnational areas of Community interest, with the aim of preserving or enhancing their innovative character, the value added by the Community, and the role of partnerships.
The fact that the Commission has not proposed any new initiative in favour of areas particularly affected by the decline of the armaments industry and the pruning of military bases does not mean that these areas are not to receive support as a matter of principle.
Outside the targeted areas, measures for adapting and modernizing education, training and employment systems with a view to improving competitiveness and cushioning socio-economic change are also eligible under the new Objective III.
In areas like Essex, Suffolk, Yorkshire and Cumbria, substantial job losses through the peace dividend have been suffered in defencerelated industries.
I am not in a position to give any answer at all to questions about a specific region and its future level of support, because we have not even agreed the proposals for the new Structural Fund Regulations within the Commission yet, and even then the support system will be far more partnership-oriented, and thus based on both European and national criteria.
The London Boroughs of Hounslow, Ealing and Richmond have all benefited at some time and I am very pleased about that.
Local authorities have tried to put forward proposals to reinvigorate the area using KONVER funds to generate more employment, but they have run into difficulties with the existing programme rules.
If that is not the intention, I still do not understand why there are not going to be transitional phasing-out arrangements for KONVER areas and other Community initiative areas, as there are going to be for Objective 2 areas that fall out of the net.
If the same need for structural change based on unemployment and low growth exists for Objective 2 areas, why not for the KONVER areas?
I know that the European Union cannot clear up all the problems in the Community with Structural Funds money.
But I hope you will understand that in proposing generous measures for Objective 1, 2 and 5b areas for phasing out regions that will in future no longer be eligible, we really want to do what is necessary to consolidate existing successes.
Again, I want to make it quite clear that KONVER areas, like all other initiatives, will continue to qualify for Objective 3 funds, that is for the training of the unemployed and people faced with unemployment.
Question No 63 by Ian White (H-0172/98) Subject: Urban II What are the Commission's rules for the establishment of programme Monitoring Committees, and where are such rules published?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the general provisions on monitoring committees for Structural Fund applications are in Article 25 of amended Council Regulation No 4253/88.
URBAN has Objective 1 and Objective 2 monitoring committees, which are the general monitoring committees for Objective 1 and Objective 2.
I noted that the Commissioner said in her earlier reply that the Community initiatives had not had the success that was hoped.
But I hope she recognizes that URBAN has provided an ideal opportunity to develop the sort of bottom-up Community initiatives that the Commission has promoted in its economic development plans and has provided a very good vehicle for promoting the Community with the citizens because of its very local, neighbourhood-level focus.
I hope that in URBAN II that local element will not be lost and will, indeed, be recognized in the monitoring committees, however they are constituted.
Because URBAN has been such a success, we want to incorporate assistance for sociallydeprived inner-city areas, the most deprived areas, into mainstream assistance, that is into the new Objective 2.
No Community financing for the prevention of floods was granted to Portugal in 1997/98, because the Portuguese government did not submit an application to that effect.
On the other hand, a programme to combat drought in Portugal was approved by the Commission on 29 September 1997.
The Commission is willing to consider an application by the Portuguese authorities for an INTERREG 2C programme on flooding, within the general guidelines and within the budgetary appropriations already allocated to Portugal.
I would, however, emphasize that the part of her answer relating to the Portuguese Government is erroneous, in that the Interreg II C allocation of funding clearly states that Portugal, Spain, Greece and Italy can apply only in connection with drought, while Belgium, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy and the Netherlands could make applications in connection with floods.
Secondly, I assume that the other regions you mentioned will also continue to receive financial assistance from the European Union.
The Commissioner is quite correct in saying that drought and floods in Portugal and Spain are connected.
And as the Commissioner is also aware, there has been a disagreement, a conflict, between Portugal and Spain in connection with the Spanish hydrological plan.
The Commission normally has no right of say in bilateral negotiations, not only because of subsidiarity, but also because in the interests of sovereignty Member States do not normally welcome Commission poking its nose into things that Member States can sort out better themselves.
and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) Vessels carrying dangerous goods The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0069/98), on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a Council Directive amending Directive 93/75/EEC concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods (Rapporteur: Mr Novo Belenguer) (C4-0621/97-96/0231(SYN).
Madam President, the report we are going to debate this evening is the second reading under the cooperation procedure and refers to the proposal to amend the directive on the minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods.
The first group reinforced the requirements for information to be provided by the operators of vessels transporting radioactive goods.
The second group concerned measures designed to extend the requirements of this Directive (93/75/EEC) to ships in transit through Community waters.
In this respect, the present report proposes four amendments, which were all approved almost unanimously by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Amendment No 4, which refers to paragraph 2 of Article 1, is directly related to the one I have just mentioned, and aims to prevent subsequent modifications to the directive weakening the existing provisions for safety and the protection of the marine environment.
The third amendment repeats a proposal we made at the report's first reading.
Furthermore, Madam President, as regards the content of this report, I think this proposal is appropriate and advisable, although we hope the provisions can also be applied to vessels in transit.
We must bear in mind that in effect this system is covered by the 1993 EUROREP proposal, but it has made hardly any progress.
So in view of the difficulty of changing this directive's approach, we suggest that the Commission, if it sees fit, should withdraw that original EUROREP proposal and present a new one, to include the legislative changes which have been made and approved by the International Maritime Organization.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at second reading we are concerned today with the minimum requirements for ships which are using the Community's ports and carrying dangerous or environmentally harmful goods.
I would like to thank the rapporteur explicitly for dealing so seriously with this subject, both at first reading and now at second reading.
The Group of the European People's Party shares the rapporteur's view.
The Treaty of Amsterdam is not yet in force, otherwise we would be more deeply involved in the legislative process.
I therefore request that you really do take up this matter, so that we can find a solution to the benefit of all the people in Europe.
This is certainly a positive fact, just as we believe the rest of the directive to be positive.
For these reasons, we believe all the amendments proposed by the rapporteur should be firmly maintained, particularly Amendment No 3 because we believe it is of vital importance that ships in transit through our waters should inform us of the presence of toxic or radioactive substances on board even if they are not stopping in a Community port.
This is very important for the future of our seas and for the ecology and health of our peoples.
In view of this situation, Commissioner, we support the Commission.
For example, passenger transport should be incompatible with the transport of dangerous goods, or it should be compulsory to present a passenger safety certificate.
At international level, the IMO decisions have not been incorporated into internal law by a large majority of Member States.
Madam President, the House is certainly considering an important piece of legislation here on the maritime transport of dangerous goods.
I must also say that the Commission shares the concerns underlying the second reading amendments that have been adopted by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Amendment No 2, for instance, proposes reference to the version of the INF Code that has been in force since 1 January this year, instead of that in force on 1 January 1996.
The Commission can also accept Amendment No 4, which states that changes to the annexes adopted through the committee procedure shall not weaken safety of maritime protection provisions.
I can reassure Members of this House that the Commission, which has the right of initiative under the committee procedure, would not submit any proposal which weakens its own initial legislation.
The Commission can understand, in principle, the concern behind Amendment No 1, which aims to clarify the scope of the committee procedure, notably in the light of Amendment No 4.
However, the Commission cannot accept this amendment for two reasons.
Firstly, it repudiates the express provision which reaffirms that ships in transit cannot be brought within the scope of this directive.
The text was added by the Council in its common position, and in the light of the pending proposal on EUROREP, accepted by the Commission.
Secondly, this amendment is, in any case, unnecessary because the existing common position text already states that amendments adopted through the committee procedure shall not alter the requirements of the directive.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 3, which introduces notification requirements for vessels in transit off the coast of Member States.
I know that the rapporteur fully understands this position, since he set it out in his own report.
To sum up: the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2 and 4 but cannot accept Nos 1 and 3.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
To be more exact, the Commission made a proposal whereby the statistics on road transport are brought more into line in the different Member States.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism submitted two amendments.
Therefore it is not too difficult for me to stand in for him here tonight.
This is going to be a more difficult task with the rivalry of the free internal market and, more specifically, this year with the arrival of free cabotage.
When we look at the statistics of road transport it will be more difficult to tell whether lorries with foreign licence plates - from countries other than the country to where they transport goods - are engaged in local transport or international transport.
Therefore, if we want to move from one modality of transport to another, we have to know exactly which transportation is intermodal and which is solely road transport.
We have just received the reports from 1993/94 which show that several Member States do not even have those statistics.
The legislation will also cover cabotage which will now be possible within the Union.
Both these exceptions are positive.
Several developments have taken place in Community policies, however, making it necessary for us to improve our system of compiling statistics on road transport.
This will allow much more detailed analysis than in the past and it will facilitate the essential monitoring, fine-tuning and understanding of relationships between different policy outcomes.
Madam President, unfortunately the Commissioner, who is not responsible for transport as such but who is responsible for the social side of transport, has not made any helpful comment on my request that all those Member States who did not hand in their statistics on driving and resting hours - which I would say are the complement to the statistics on road transport as such, or which are part and parcel of it - will be improved, especially by those Member States who do not hand them in at all.
Madam President, to respond very briefly to the honourable Member, this particular point is not relevant to the Eurostat situation, it is a matter for a DG VII question.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Madam President, most of us have often been in danger of being injured or have actually been injured during our day-to-day activities or in our free time.
Today in the European Union the injuries covered by the present programme are one of the most basic causes of death, damage to health and disablement.
The most vulnerable are those between 1 and 34 years of age, and people over 75.
The need to address the problem initially led the Community to create a scheme of research and information, the EHLASS scheme.
Recent statistics provided by the scheme point to an annual death rate from accidents of 83 000 with approximately 22 million people injured each year, 20 million of whom require medical assistance, and 2 million of whom need hospital treatment.
The direct financial cost of treatment is ECU 7.7 billion, while the total cost of injuries amounts to ECU 23 billion, which does not include the cost resulting from deaths.
The need for a programme of prevention and epidemiological monitoring of injuries at a European Union level is all too evident.
For this reason, it is proposed that a distinction be made between a) intentional and unintentional injuries, with special reference to vulnerable categories, and b) suicides and self-inflicted injuries.
The programme consequently focuses on the possibility of collating and processing all the relevant data.
Such a scheme, the EHLASS scheme, already exists and has yielded results, on the one hand pinpointing certain products which are implicated in accidents and, on the other, undertaking information and awareness campaigns.
The Commission is proposing only ECU 1.3 million for 1999 and I regard this as totally inadequate in relation to the aims of the programme.
In fact, it is in a context such as rare diseases that Community action becomes more necessary than ever.
In most Member States there are usually too few cases of rare diseases for them to be considered a priority from the health point of view, and they are often neglected.
The concept of "rare diseases' covers more than 5 000 different diseases or conditions that do not have a common definition.
The five-year programme planned for 1999-2003 provides for a series of actions in three key sectors: information on rare diseases, favouring the establishment of a European database; promotion and reinforcement of patient support groups; and progress in the creation of response groups for clusters of rare diseases.
The financial allocation proposed by the Commission amounts to ECU 1.3 million for 1999, while funding for the four subsequent years will be determined later, based on the financial prospects.
I would like to draw your attention to this point before continuing with the presentation of this programme.
There is doubt as to whether the Commission has any intention of adopting an effective action programme on rare diseases.
By way of information, I recall that in the last three years the USA has allocated a good $ 3.2 million to the operation of the rare diseases database and France alone has spent 3 million francs in the first year of operation of its database on orphan drugs.
For all these reasons, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection voted in favour of a financial allocation of ECU 14 million to implement the rare diseases programme, to be spread over five years, to enable the programme not to be purely symbolic.
In making a more thorough assessment of the action programme in question, one aspect of prime importance which must be taken into account is international cooperation: the coordination of Community activities with those of the competent national and international organizations allows the work to be rationalized, useless duplication to be avoided, and the time required to achieve the pre-established objectives to be reduced.
One further essential point of the programme relates to information.
The Commission must undertake to coordinate the work on rare diseases currently being conducted by three Directorates-General: DG V, DG III and DG XII.
The action programme on rare diseases, regulations on orphan drugs and the research programme on rare diseases are closely linked and require a consistent overall approach.
The adoption of this programme is a step forward towards a better knowledge and understanding of rare diseases and enables sufferers to escape from the marginalization and isolation they find themselves in, offering them therapeutic, moral and psychological support.
Moreover, the commitment to research into rare diseases could also lead to specific discoveries to help with the treatment of some of the far more common diseases which have not yet been eradicated and affect large sections of the population.
In this case, the benefit to the whole of society would certainly not be questioned.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important document from the Commission.
It is well written, serious, clear and concise and highlights the priorities which we also stressed in Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
We have three main comments arising from this communication.
My second comment concerns the type of action which the Commission aims to implement in order to reduce the extent of pollution-related diseases.
Finally, the Commission would like every Member State to inform its citizens about the dangers of pollution, to ensure that people are clear about it.
We cover this in Amendments Nos 9 and 10.
We fully support this proposal and would highlight Amendment No 6 in this respect.
Our third and last comment concerns the budgetary basis for these measures.
The current communication only allows for a budget of ECU 1.3 million for 1999 and does not provide any details of subsequent funding, although the Commission has been heard to promise ECU 1.3 million for the programme for the next five years, in other words a total of ECU 6.5 million.
It goes without saying that a much larger budget will be needed if we really wish to combat pollution-related diseases, even in terms of the actions presented by the Commission in this communication.
Permit me, despite these short remarks, to make a few critical points on this report by the Commission.
Nevertheless, the Commission's statements here remain general and, in my opinion, incomplete.
I should like to cordially request that in the next report, which will be available very soon, the Commission pays particular attention to this area.
Likewise I expect a statement from the Commission on the situation regarding vitamins and mineral products within the EU, before legislative measures are proposed here.
Let me illustrate this with point 10 of my report on the subject of tobacco.
We all know that the nicotine from tobacco is addictive and we all want to protect young people from becoming involved with this drug.
I consider it necessary to check whether it is possible to convert to other agricultural products and, thirdly, to check how and if the livelihood of many farmers and many thousands of families can nevertheless be secured.
There is still a whole series of other points which appear to me to be very important; for example points 22, 24 and 25.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, and the very few but highly valued ladies and gentlemen present, almost two years have gone by since this House unanimously voted through its resolution on Alzheimer's disease and related syndromes, urging the Commission to present a specific action programme for combating this terrible disease as soon as possible.
There is no point in once more presenting one of this century's real scourges which, as it affects the elderly, will grow in proportion to the increase in the very high life expectancy that fortunately characterizes our present-day society, as clearly illustrated in the Commission's 1997 demographic report.
If current trends continue, changes in the European population over the next 30 years will mean that the number of people over 60 will increase by 50 %.
The figures are dramatic and disturbing: at the moment, there are a good five million people suffering from this terrible disease.
Considering that 80 % of patients live with their families, and in the vast majority of cases the greatest burden rests on the shoulders of the families - and therefore the women - in the EU today, a distressing number of citizens are subjected daily to indescribable emotional, psychological and financial suffering.
Keeping faith with the commitment undertaken for those who are in the front line today, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I once again call on the Commission to provide the Community with a specific programme for Alzheimer's disease as a matter of urgency.
In the Fifth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development for 1998-2002, in the context of the thematic priority of quality of life and the management of living resources, specific reference is made to Alzheimer's disease in the key action on the ageing of the population, which aims to promote the health and independence of the elderly.
I am sure that, unfortunately, many of those present in this Chamber have known families affected by this terrible disease.
Unfortunately however, the pharmaceutical industry for example has little interest in this sector, as it is not considered very profitable.
That is why Community intervention is essential, intervention with a high moral, social and human value.
Madam President, I think we must welcome the fact that we are debating such an important set of public health matters today in this Chamber, although it is perhaps a pity that it is during the evening session when fewer Members take part and there is less chance of other people listening.
Starting where Mr Poggiolini left off, I must congratulate Mr Viceconte on his report and thank him for including most of the amendments presented by the other groups.
Mr Marset Campos will speak later on and will have plenty to say about some of the proposals we made in the amendments which the rapporteur has very kindly accepted from us.
So we agree with what has already been said here: we are convinced that there has to be an action programme, like in other areas such as cancer and so on.
If there is a worthwhile aspect to the European Union's work in the field of public health, it is that practically all its action programmes are directed towards prevention, to stop the disease developing.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Alzheimer's disease is a serious threat to the population of the European Union where the number of older people most affected by it is steadily on the increase.
According to statistics, 8 million people will be affected in the European Union in the year 2000, which represents some 2 % of the population over 65.
For this reason, Parliament has taken a first step by adopting a budget line specifically aimed at combating Alzheimer's disease.
But we must go further, and in the framework of its future communication on public health the Commission should follow up our resolution with a specific programme against Alzheimer's and support for the associations actively involved in fighting the disease.
The fight against this illness would also benefit from an exchange of data within the European Union and from coordination at Community level.
So I hope Parliament will support this request, which is so important in ensuring that Community actions on health yield the results we all want.
In 1997 it allocated under ECU 2 million to research in the disease.
Eight million people are affected with Alzheimer's in the EU, so in effect the EU has spent less than 13 Belgian francs on each sufferer.
A properly resourced EU action programme, like Europe Against Cancer and Europe Against AIDS, is needed to raise awareness about the disease and coordinate activities against it.
Furthermore, national authorities should examine ways of improving their services, and attention needs to be paid to improving early detection so that victims can be informed early that they have Alzheimer's and decide if they wish to be cared for at home or placed in residential care before acute dementia sets in.
With more help of that kind, people could actually keep their affected loved ones at home with them longer if they wanted to.
This Parliament has to call for a number of things: recognition of Alzheimer's disease as a major health scourge within the meaning of Article 129 of the Treaty; establishment of an action programme to combat Alzheimer's disease and related disorders within the priorities of the new Community public health programme; recognition of the important role played by family care givers, Alzheimer's Europe and their national member organizations; and finally, the establishment of a European network and support for existing networks working with people with Alzheimer's.
It certainly gives me satisfaction that my promise to Parliament to present eight health programme proposals has now been fulfilled, and Parliament has been a very great help in delivering on the promise.
The three proposals for action before you complete the 1993 framework for action in the field of public health.
All eight health programmes for action in the field of public health have been endorsed by Parliament as priorities in considering what kind of public health policy the Community could develop under the Maastricht Treaty.
In total, 23 amendments are acceptable to the Commission, either in whole or in part.
The five amendments which are not acceptable to the Commission refer to comitology - that is: Amendment No 21, which is not in accordance with the wording of the comitology decision; to the consistency and complementarity of the Community actions - Amendments Nos 10, 14 and 20, which are not in line with the wording used in previous decisions on the other public health programmes; and to an action outside the scope of Article 129 - Amendment No 27.
For the purpose of the programme, rare diseases are defined as life-threatening or chronically debilitating diseases which are of such low prevalence that special combined efforts are called for.
In this area there is much that the Community can offer.
The reasons for rejecting the remaining 13 amendments are as follows: 4 amendments are not acceptable for legal reasons, and they are Amendments Nos 6, 10, 20 and 21.
Three amendments are unacceptably limiting: Nos 4, 15 and 24.
Three amendments are covered elsewhere: Nos 11, 13 and 29.
Two amendments are unacceptable because of budgetary limitations: Nos 14 and 19.
I should say a few words about the budget problem, which I know is an issue that Parliament feels very strongly about and has been referred to virtually by every single Member here this evening.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection voted for ECU 14 million for the years 1999-2003.
Although the precise situation has still to be clarified - and I hope the budgetary authority will come to a definitive stand on this - there appears to be no room for a financial framework exceeding the ECU 1.3 million per year.
Let me turn to the programme on pollution-related diseases.
Turning to the 16 amendments, I would like to indicate that the Commission can accept five of them.
Amendments Nos 4, 11, 12 and 13: these broaden the scope of the proposed action to an unacceptable degree.
Amendments Nos 1 and 2 cannot be accepted as they refer to the Amsterdam Treaty which is not as yet ratified, whereas Amendment No 6 is not consistent with the corresponding wording used in previous decisions on public health programmes.
Finally, Amendments Nos 14, 15 and 16 have to be rejected because they are unacceptably limiting the scope of the programme to preparatory work only.
Some Member States have acquired a lot of experience in preventative actions in these areas.
Parts I and II of this action programme address all pollution-related diseases, without exception.
However, specific actions on cancer, cardiovascular disease and communicable diseases which are linked with environmental factors are already covered by other programmes.
I would like to thank you, Mrs Flemming, for your excellent and very comprehensive report and your very supportive comments as well.
The Maastricht Treaty obliges the Community to ensure that health protection requirements are an integral part of the Community's policies.
The Commission has put in place a set of procedures to implement this requirement.
The annual report on health requirements shows the wide range of policies which are relevant to health and your report concentrates on the second report - the report covering 1995.
It is not always evident how best to integrate health requirements in Community policies or to evaluate the health impact of a particular policy or action of the Member States on Community citizens.
Parliament's report points to a number of directions that future work can usefully take - you mentioned those in your contribution - and contains a range of suggestions and proposals for efforts in this field which the Commission is willing to take on board.
I am now giving you that commitment to take them on board in detail and consider them for our next report.
As the Amsterdam Treaty will significantly widen the scope of the provisions on the health impact of policies, I would welcome an opportunity to continue the dialogue with Parliament on how best to ensure that health considerations are adequately taken on board in all areas of Community policy.
Indeed I was encouraged to see that Parliament shares my intention to launch a debate on the future public health policy of the Community.
I hope to publish in the very near future a communication on this very subject.
I should like to say a few words about Alzheimer's disease since very many Members have spoken on this particular aspect.
However, Parliament is the exception here.
Study after study has shown that we should be bracing ourselves for a significant rise in the number of people suffering from this disease.
This was a matter brought up by Ms McKenna when she pointed out the need for better coordination in this area.
With regard to your demands to intensify research in this area, the political agreement on the common position relating to the Fifth Framework Programme for RTD attained at the Research Council on 12 February 1998 provides for precise, clearlydefined objectives and the first thematic programme entitled 'Improving the Quality of Life and the Management of Living Resources' comprises a key action on the ageing population, including patients with chronic neurological disorders.
It must be appreciated that the scope for action is rather limited as prevention of Alzheimer's disease is not possible and at Community-level there is no proper legal base in the Treaty to go beyond prevention and research.
That causes a lot of difficulties in planning a possible action programme.
But since 1995 the Commission has financed or cofinanced 58 different projects.
These projects enhanced the knowledge base, the exchange of information, the quality of life of Alzheimer's sufferers and gave support to their informal carers.
I attach particular significance to what we can do by way of better assistance and training for carers of those people who are unfortunate enough to have this disease.
From these projects models of good practice have been developed.
At the end of this debate, I have received seven motions for a resolution.
Parliament is playing its part - a committee hearing in October will seek to evaluate the programme so far and will then play its part in looking forward to a constructive interpretation of what will be the new Article 152.
The irony tonight is of course that however fast Parliament moves the implementation of programmes on rare diseases and pollution diseases and accidents and injuries will not begin until the evaluation has taken place, which shows the slow pace of development of programmes since the Maastricht Treaty.
Such an occasion as this is an opportunity to say that public health deserves a much higher priority in the EU within both the Commission and Member State governments as well as in the Parliament.
The decision regarding multiple sites was of course taken by Member State governments and my purpose here is simply to indicate the consequences of such actions.
Most if not all of the Members here tonight are committed to developing that role and I pay tribute to a succession of rapporteurs who have tried to make a progressive contribution to the debate, including those here tonight.
Many Members here are being invited, as I am, to conferences, some organized by presidents-in-office, full of experienced rational experts who want a European contribution to international problems which cannot be properly tackled at local or national levels.
Member States often cite the World Health Organization as the proper body for that and of course it has a crucial role, one where greater cooperation with the Commission should be encouraged as Members here have often done.
But that neglects the growing economic and social substance of the European Union, the unique opportunity it offers to channel relevant action on health protection and promotion for its citizens.
They will be more horizontal in approach, offering greater added value, and will provide opportunities for the EU and its Member States to work together far more effectively on health issues in the broader sense within the confines of the Treaty.
But in each of the three programmes tonight we shall need to wrestle with the need to resource their contents properly and sustainably.
But the other side of the coin is that if we were to have another small European programme where too great a proportion is spent on administration assessment and the very people it seeks to help are put off participating by the lack of cost effectiveness in making bids or building networks, many voluntary organizations could not spare the time or resources to prepare those proposals and would simply opt out.
That is why it is worth fighting for more through this Parliament and also worth including consumer or patient expertise in the committees assessing the programme development.
The Cabrol report incisively identifies ailments beyond respiratory conditions which might usefully come within the remit of the programme to tackle pollution-related diseases.
Taken together with other environmental actions which this House is pursuing this report represents a literal breath of fresh air for health policies and it deserves our full support.
Whether taking part in sports or just going about normal life, the number of European citizens injured, disabled or even killed in accidents is quite staggering and is recorded in detail in the report.
In particular the need to strengthen the EHLASS system of research and information sharing is fundamental and exemplifies the need for the internal Commission coherence to which I alluded earlier.
That justification is self-evident for Alzheimer's and now that the eight initial programmes are under way, if far from in place, it is appropriate to turn towards the future.
Its stress on coherent development and integration is essential and is exemplified by my concluding plea for support tonight.
The world will demand that and our citizens will expect us to fulfil our role as their protectors for a consistent removal of health threats and risks.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the significance of health policy in Europe is increasing.
This is stipulated by the Treaty of Amsterdam, and that is a good thing, because for too long the European Community has only concerned itself with the free movement of goods in the single market and too little with other aspects, which are, however, closely associated with this.
The question of subsidiarity is often raised, particularly when the European Union wants to intervene itself and should not just take the health policy in other areas into consideration.
Madam President, I would like to make a few institutional points on the future.
In 1984, when I first entered this House, I asked for a sub-committee on health protection to be set up.
Older doctors find it difficult to move, so we need to think of investing in doctors currently in training, as the rapporteur says, trying to get them to travel in the various countries.
I therefore think it advisable to study this problem, because we need not just medical graduates but trained doctors, and I believe a knowledge of the 15 countries could lead to high levels of competitiveness.
Madam President, my colleagues Mr Cars and Mr Lindqvist will comment on the Alzheimer issue, and I would like to say a few things about the Cabrol report.
I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Cabrol, that the action programme on pollution-related diseases has too many limitations.
We hope the Commissioner can raise the ECU 1.3 million set aside for this programme for the period 1999-2003 to ECU 14 million.
Such registration points already exist in the Netherlands and Belgium.
My fellow group-member, Laura González Álvarez, said just a moment ago that we are pleased that our amendments have been included in these reports.
I would like to give a few examples and then draw some general conclusions.
Madam President, despite the limited number of Members present and the late hour, I think everyone is aware of the importance of this debate and the fact that the health problem is assuming ever greater political importance for the EU, although still not enough as regards the problems raised today.
That there is a link between the various public health issues is shown by the fact that, in today's debate on general health protection, we are dealing with a programme concerning pollution-related diseases and rare diseases.
It is therefore important for us to have a prevention policy on rare diseases, a joint common study, because the small countries cannot have an adequate knowledge of these diseases, and because we also need public intervention, public research, in the field of drugs required to resolve related problems.
The European Commission, which from 1986 to 1996 allowed contaminated cattle and contaminated flour to circulate freely, is now concerned with the health of Europeans.
The Commission is intervening because Article 129 of the European Treaties assigns it the responsibility of ensuring a high level of health protection.
Leprosy is still rare in our countries, but perhaps free circulation will make it more common.
We have been told it was not possible to increase funding and, taking into account the budgetary rationing policy, our committee proposes to bring it up to ECU 14 million.
But there are much more serious issues if we consider food allergies.
Madam President, the EU's attention and commitment to the health of its male and female citizens is continuing to grow, just as its competence on health has grown from Maastricht to Amsterdam, even if many Member States refuse today to transfer competence in the field of health care to the EU, and may continue to do so for a long time.
Although this is true in general, it is all the more so when we deal with issues such as those being considered in this debate on health: rare diseases which, by definition, reach a critical mass more amenable to analysis if monitoring, control, knowledge and research activities are conducted over a wider area than that of the individual states; or pollution-related diseases, a phenomenon that knows no boundaries and which we can only combat with coordinated joint measures at super-national level.
It is a fact that the greatest economic power in the world has so far not supported and driven the action of its Member States in a field where a substitution of the private sector is hard to imagine, despite the fact that it has become increasingly clear that it is precisely the rarity of these diseases - diseases which are rare but seriously disabling and often fatal - that made it impossible to provide the know-how, the information and the scientific and economic means necessary to provide an adequate answer.
When we talk about rare diseases, we are referring to more than 5 000 diseases with a prevalence of 10 in 5 000 in the entire Community population.
Although economizing on health is always serious, in this case, at a time when the EU should, on its own initiative, be stimulating, coordinating and supporting the task of the Member States, allocating a symbolic, ridiculous sum would be a joke.
I totally agree with the need to reduce tobacco use in order to reduce or even eliminate the harm caused by smoking, but I do not agree on the inclusion in a health report of a provision that belongs in other programmes, relating to agriculture.
Madam President, four important reports are up for debate.
Studies confirm that sterility is on the increase amongst young people, which places a heavy burden on health expenditure since sterility results in recourse to in vitro fertilization.
And I believe that thanks to its size and to the means generally available to its Member States, the European Union is better able to tackle this task than our individual countries.
There is no better example of this weakness in our internal policies than our health policies.
So, these are some examples of what the joint work of the Commission and Parliament should be, in the search for a final objective.
For another thing, there are quantitative differences in the budgets.
I have to say that, personally, I would also prefer paragraph 12 to be withdrawn, because it is clearly contradictory to what was approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Madam President, with regard to Alzheimer's disease I am especially pleased that Parliament has been able, even in a small way, to play a role with regard to this major health scourge.
But this can only be regarded as a first step in the fight against this disease.
The commitment in the Amsterdam Treaty to preventing human illness and disease goes even further than the present Treaty and is therefore to be welcomed.
Secondly, the Commission must coordinate future and past research results relating to the disease and be prepared to coordinate with the World Health Organization associations and organizations active in this sector, including families and carers.
The report is basically on the right track in calling for better coordination and closer ties in health policy as part of the EU's other policies.
The Amsterdam Treaty, as has been said here, will give more weight to questions of public health than at present.
In that way we would have to adopt a more systematic and far more integrated strategy than now, one that is comprehensive and all-embracing.
There is a clear relationship between health and equality.
What effects this will have on different policies, and how we are going to allocate financial resources in the area of health care, are vital questions for the future, not just for the European Union, but particularly for the Member States individually.
Madam President, I wish to make a few remarks and address a few questions to the Commissioner with regard to the Trakatellis report.
That would mean an end to some duplication of resources between two of the directorates and it would put a greater onus on the Member States to contribute 50 %, instead of 20 % of the cost of this project.
In those circumstances, one wonders how we can launch this integrated scheme in 1998.
There was some objection from some of the Member States, notably Germany and, to a lesser extent, France, to the introduction of the EHLASS scheme in the first instance.
I had the job two years ago of monitoring how this scheme was operating for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I came to the conclusion that it was a worthwhile scheme and we should continue with it.
We know, and we have heard here this evening, that many thousands of our citizens suffer from this disease and related syndrome throughout the European Union.
The Commission has already produced much-needed initiatives against cancer, pollution-related diseases, rare diseases, AIDS and smoking, on the basis of existing public health competencies.
An Alzheimer's action programme would be of enormous benefit to the many thousands of Europeans suffering from this disease.
I would like to see this situation immediately eased and I have made representations to the relevant minister in this regard.
Finally, small programmes and small initiatives can be very useful.
We should encourage this sort of therapeutic action throughout Europe.
Could I just very briefly sum up because I really went through many of the points that have been raised in some detail in my first contribution.
I have to say that one has to be very encouraged by the quality of the debate in the House this evening on this very important topic of public health.
I have little to add by way of substance on the various reports and on the oral questions, but I have taken note of the various matters and of what I would regard as the underlying messages which have come through in the various interventions.
They have been similar in many ways but they are worth taking note of because we have to consider them very carefully in the next important period, when we will be considering the next framework insofar as public health matters are concerned.
A lot of the interventions focused on taking a very serious view of and putting a very high priority on the provisions of public health which were set out both in the Maastricht and in the Amsterdam Treaties, and I would like to think that perhaps in the next framework we could take a rather wide interpretation of what is involved in the Amsterdam Treaty in preparing our new framework.
The first three or four programmes really mopped up all the money and left virtually nothing for the three hugely important programmes we are talking about now.
Maybe that can be changed by good intention and good practice in what we do insofar as the framework is concerned.
The House has indicated very genuine and encouraging support for the eight public health promotion programmes that we have.
We developed those under Article 128 of the Maastricht Treaty.
Perhaps we should set out the possibilities in the next framework programme as to what we should do, then put it to the Member States - set out what the Parliament and the Commission agree should be funded in the best interests of the citizens, then go for the money from the budgetary authority.
Let us hope that the budgetary perspective beyond 2000 will share that view with us, because your view is going to be shared and is going to be brought home very clearly in the communication that I have promised the House on the next framework.
Most of the members point to the importance of the next framework on public health and the need we can see there to expand the horizons substantially beyond those of the current package of programmes.
The Union can provide almost ECU 800 million per year to support a product that is of virtually no value insofar as marketing is concerned and, at the same time, causes immense damage to public health.
I have to say that this is supported by the Commissioner and by the Commission.
DG V, my directorate, will be taking over ECU 7.5 million from DG XXIV to cover the inclusion of EHLASS within the public health programmes.
There have been many useful points made.
But I could summarize it all by saying that public health, as enshrined in the Treaty and widened in the concept of application insofar as the Amsterdam Treaty is concerned, is a matter of great concern to the House.
Madam President, I just wish to say in response to that profound statement that before the problem arose it had been contemplated in one of our proposals, even in advance of the BSE problem.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.28 p.m.)
