However I should again like to stress that my group cannot accept a situation where we are referring back to something that is not yet in force.
Mr Lindqvist has also just informed us that it will be in writing.
I am extremely concerned that the requirement made in Amendment No 3 to the report - that the Member States should gradually establish a uniform and concerted procedure with regard to asylum, immigration and the crossing of Member Statesʼ external frontiers - will result in the European Union building even higher walls against the outside world and make it even harder for political refugees to find sanctuary with us.
Wheeled vehicles The next item is the recommendation (A4-0342/97) by Mr Kittelmann, on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, on the draft Council Decision with a view to accession by the European Community to the Agreement of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions (Revised 1958 Agreement) (9868/97 - C4-0467/97-96/0006(AVC).
In 1958 some of the countries represented in the United Nations Economic Committee for Europe concluded an agreement on the adoption of uniform conditions for the approval of motor vehicle parts and equipment.
The economic significance of such an agreement to the European motor industry is self-evident.
Since the agreement came into being, about 100 specific provisions have been adopted, encompassing all items of equipment and parts used in motor vehicles.
I wish to point out the importance of this revised agreement to the European motor industry and employment.
However, we should take into account the fact that the European Union's acceptance of the revised 1958 Agreement could lead some countries, such as Japan, Korea, China, South Africa and India, and emergent countries which will be competing in the future, which have shown an interest or even the intention of accepting the agreement, to take the final step, but to do so in the direction we want.
Madam President, before I start I would like to get something off my chest about the procedure in the Committee on External Economic Relations, which voted hastily on this report on 21 October.
The report provides a detailed analysis of the content and internal procedure to be followed, from the time the European Community becomes a contracting party to this agreement.
From a political and economic point of view, I would simply like to point out the growing importance of the development in international harmonization, not only with regard to industry but also from the consumers' point of view.
To be more precise, the Commission wishes to confirm that, before voting in favour of the adoption of a draft regulation or a draft amendment, the Community should ask the European Parliament for its favourable opinion in the event of new regulations or in the event of existing regulations that are adapted to technical progress, and submit draft amendments to the European Parliament in good time for the current procedure to be adopted at committee level.
The Commission will also inform the European Parliament of all the stages in the procedure, particularly with regard to drawing up the work programme and the progress in work done.
In the sensitive sectors, such as that of polluting agents and noise emissions, the Council and the Commission have agreed, in the context of a declaration set out in the Council documents, that the adoption of measures in these sectors should take place, at Community level, in accordance with the provisions of articles 100a and 189b and that the procedure for the adoption of an amendment to a regulation will only take place after completing that process.
The debate is closed.
The European Union can sign any number of agreements, but must remain vigilant as to their actual implementation by all.
However, it would be prejudicial to anticipate their implementation and put them into practice before our competitors.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, you will recall that on 22 October 1996, the European Parliament decided in favour of the creation of a guarantee fund to encourage cinema and audiovisual productions.
Under the Irish Presidency, the Council meeting of 16 December did not accept the proposal, but adopted the idea of a 5-year experimental phase, basing its credibility on a study provided by the EIF, which provided guarantees with regard to the management of the fund.
As Parliament's rapporteur on this subject, I have been able to gauge the expectations of professionals, both in the audiovisual industry and in the financial sector.
The growth of the overall income of the sector is estimated at an average of over 69 %.
Madam President, in Amsterdam, the Member States did not want culture to gain importance, and many Members of the House consider article 128 to be very inadequate.
Madam President, in 1988 the European Union's deficit on cultural trade in cinema, television and video productions with the United States amounted to $ 2.1 billion.
The percentage of American films shown in European cinemas is still increasing and has reached 80 %.
The main aim of this debate and the resolution tabled by my group is to suggest to the Council of Culture Ministers that its meeting on 24 November should end in an agreement.
Madam President, in a few days' time, the Culture Council will decide whether to create a guarantee fund to promote audiovisual production.
Finally, do you think the Culture Council of 24 November could finally reach an agreement on the establishment of the fund?
If we compare employment in the United States for the whole of the audiovisual sector, which amounts to over 2.6 million workers, and in the European Community, where it only reaches 1.8 million, we have a shortfall of nearly one million jobs in the cultural sector.
The reluctance some countries have expressed in Council - and certainly my country is one of them - lie in the fact that there is a fear of waste.
A budget of ECU 90 million was initially allocated to the guarantee fund referred to in the proposal.
Furthermore, as Parliament knows, the European Investment Bank cannot finance such small and medium budget productions, as the minimum size of the loans it provides is ECU 25 million.
Furthermore, it may not be a coincidence, and it may be fortunate, that we are discussing this report at a time when a big summit meeting is in fact taking place in Luxembourg on employment.
Mr Elchlepp has a question for the Commission.
The Commission's initial proposal was indeed ECU 90 million.
The Commission, on the other hand, considers that even if the budget is small, the fact that it exists is important, because it will open the door to the procedure and will at least provide some leverage for, let us hope, a more adequate initiative in the future in the field of audiovisual production.
The Commission, which includes seven Member States of the European Union, met on 21 October and continued its work until 2 November in Hobart, Australia.
Illegal fishing takes various forms: fishing vessels authorized to fish, but committing violations; fishing vessels flying the flag of a member country of the CCAMLR conducting their business with no fishing licence, thus committing a serious violation; and, finally, fishing vessels flying the flag of non-member countries of the CCAMLR fishing without any restrictions.
Madam President, I would like to thank my old friend Mr Ripa di Meana for his presentation this morning.
The report in question refers to the measures adopted in 1996; as recalled, a further meeting has since been held, as the CCAMLR procedure is reviewed every year and it is therefore of interest not only to report the conclusions of the meeting held in 1996, but perhaps to update MEPs on the decisions taken in 1997, which seem to me to be positive with regard to the concerns expressed here.
This new compulsory measure can therefore serve not only as a deterrent but also to help us assess the extent of illegal fishing, which we all recognize exists.
A Commission proposal on satellite monitoring has also been accepted as a CCAMLR resolution.
Thank you for your speech, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I shall be referring to the report on the agreement between the European Union and Guinea Bissau for the period June 1997 to June 2000.
Furthermore, they provide the Community fleet - whose capacity is greater than the stocks available in Community waters - with fishing opportunities.
And they also provide local and regional communities which have genuine difficulties diversifying their economic fabric with an economic alternative, thereby ensuring their survival.
Moreover, the agreement stipulates that the fishing possibilities in the abovementioned sectors may be increased if fishing resources permit, with - of course - a proportional increase in the financial compensation.
This is therefore a good agreement, which is adjusted to the degree of compliance with the previous agreement and protocol, and which, moreover, increases the fishing possibilities for the Community fleet.
The financial compensation provided for has also been markedly increased: from ECU 6.35 million per year to ECU 8.5 million per year, in line with the increase in fishing possibilities.
This agreement was signed on 30 June, but, although Parliament was informed unofficially by the Commission, it was only formally consulted at the end of October, and then by urgent procedure - with the unusual circumstance that the first payment must be made before 31 December of this year.
If the Community were to replace these agreements - in which the countries concerned have to give something in exchange - with simple charity, it would probably not assist the economic development of those countries.
The other day, I referred to educational action, but it will also have to take action at the level of international agreements, in order to ensure that the total fishing effort in the waters of the developing countries does not lead to the destruction of fisheries stocks.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has also been asked to give its opinion on the fifth protocol establishing the fishing rights and the financial compensation provided for in the fisheries agreement concluded with Equatorial Guinea.
Even more worrying is the fact that the proportion of undersized tuna has in some cases increased to over 50 % of total catches over the past few years!
The result: with the exception of Angola and Morocco, a consistent increase was noted in the number of tuna fishing licences issued, in one case the increase was over 100 %.
The new protocol with Equatorial Guinea is therefore no exception, but it does prove the rule.
As far as conservation measures are concerned, reference is now being made to an agreement to protect the Atlantic tuna which three large EU shipowners' associations have concluded among themselves, as a kind of voluntary selfregulation.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I had an opportunity to see for myself last August, the government authorities and the various economic sectors of Cape Verde with whose representatives I had a chance to talk, are very much interested in the renewal of the fishing agreement with the European Union.
In my report I have expressed my unequivocal support for the renewal of the fishing agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Cape Verde.
It is important, Madam Commissioner, that the Commission should once and for all present its reports on the implementation of agreements and the situation with regard to local fish stocks, well before the terms of the relevant protocols expire, to enable the European Parliament to make a decision on their renewal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the code of conduct all three institutions undertook to do everything in their power to ensure speedy negotiation of the fisheries agreement.
But I would also like to emphasize how difficult it is for us to maintain our position on the fisheries agreements when the Commission systematically violates the so-called code of conduct and when we are systematically placed in a situation where we have to give opinions on reports after the protocols have already been signed and when the process is already being rapidly adopted.
Between 1990 and 2000 - and thus between the first and this, the third protocol - financial compensation to Cape Verde was reduced by 40 %.
At the same time, the number of fishing permits, especially for tuna, rose by 40 % from about 50 vessels under the first protocol to 73 vessels under the current one.
I would nevertheless point out that the owners' share, especially as regards bottom longliners, increases by 30 % between the second protocol and the one now before us for approval.
But I would like to stress once more that so far as Cape Verde is concerned there has been a 40 % reduction in financial compensation between the first protocol and the one we are now asked to approve.
Finally, with regard to Guinea-Bissau, I should like to emphasize that since 1993 the amounts of the financial compensation have not been increased, and this calls for adjustment.
We must not forget, where these countries are concerned - Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau - that they are heavily dependent on these fisheries agreements for their own economic sustainability, and it should also be said - as our colleague Mr Honório Novo has said - that, so far as investigative measures and technical grants are concerned, both these countries have tried to do their very best to see that the money is well used.
Mr President, today we have before us five reports on which we have to rule.
Before, sooner or later, another Intergovernmental Conference is held and we hopefully gain greater influence here in this House, we can hope for a positive outcome at the European Court of Justice because of international agreements - in this case the international agreement with Mauritania.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Mr Tajani.
With regard to prawn fishing, the Community fleet had used around 93 % and this justifies the increase of 800 tonnes gross tonnage agreed by this protocol.
Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Madam Commissioner, for being here today.
I believe that, taken as a whole, these four protocols will be highly advantageous to both the European Union and the third countries concerned, both because of the general increase in fishing possibilities and the contributions from the Community budget to initiatives such as the development of small-scale fishing - especially in the protocols with GuineaBissau and Equatorial Guinea - and because of the monitoring mechanisms established for those third countries.
Mr President, this has been a good debate and it is important for certain Member States.
As far as I can see from these reports we are talking about a total of ECU 41 million which is a lot of money scattered around the number of vessels that are participating in this local fisheries we are having the agreements with.
That is why it is important that these agreements be seen in the light of future opportunities which may not always exist in the future.
In short, on 30 October last, the Council not only confirmed unanimously the essential nature of the fisheries agreements and their vital importance to certain regions of the Community, but it also recalled the need, which I will come back to later, to reinforce the consistency of the various means available to this sector.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
Report (A4-0300/97) by Mr Imaz San Miguel, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council Regulation on the conclusion of the Protocol establishing the fishing possibilities and the financial compensation provided for in the Agreement between the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau on fishing off the coast of Guinea-Bissau for the period 16 June 1997 to 15 June 2001 (COM(97)0395 - C4-0448/97-97/0205(CNS)) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, I know my way around Guinea-Bissau quite well and am very impressed by my friend Mr Imaz San Miguel's report.
We believe that the European Union should abandon costly fisheries agreements of this type and switch over to providing support above all to the developing countriesʼ own fisheries activities.
However, we were unable to support the report in the final vote.
We believe that the European Union should abandon costly fisheries agreements of this type and switch over to providing support above all to the developing countriesʼ own fisheries activities.
We believe that the European Union should abandon costly fisheries agreements of this type and switch over to providing support above all to the developing countriesʼ own fisheries activities.
