The value of trade between us is twice as high as that of Israel's trade with the United States.
It is important that the Union's relations with the Middle East and its influence in that region remain steady and strong.
This agreement is one of many instruments that govern these relations and with which Parliament will deal in greater detail in March.
Lastly, as your rapporteur I should like to make the following comment: relations between the Commission and Parliament are somewhat strained at the present time.
Applause Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group endorses the report and very largely agrees with what the rapporteur, Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl, has said.
The Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the European Community and the State of Israel allows us to build on past successes, which began in 1996, at least as far as the present high level of cooperation is concerned.
In a period of only three years, 369 joint projects, costing a total of ECU 53 million, have been successfully implemented.
The continuation of this cooperation in the fifth framework programme is in the interests of both sides.
Our own interest lies not only in the high quality of Israeli research, but also the emerging adoption of European processes and standards and the future development of more marketing opportunities in the region.
That is why it is natural that not only Israel but also our Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy and the great majority of my group favour the smoothest possible transition from the fourth to the fifth framework programme.
At our insistence, Palestinian companies and research establishments were also involved in joint projects.
Mr President, our group can also endorse the report and would like to see it implemented as soon as possible.
However, we cannot approve it at this stage, because we - the European Union and the European Parliament - would be being used by a head of state who has shown total disregard for the peace agreements and for the process of promoting peaceful coexistence in the region.
Mr President, this report on the research agreement between the EU and Israel is no simple matter.
In this context, mention also needs to be made of Mordechai Vanunu, the Israeli researcher who disclosed details about nuclear weapons and nuclear energy research in Israel.
Mr President, the issue with which we are concerned today has an obvious political element.
My group therefore hopes and expects that if Parliament delivers a positive opinion on scientific and technological cooperation, Israel will clean up its act.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the conclusion of scientific and technical cooperation agreements between the European Community and the State of Israel.
We would nevertheless like to take advantage of this debate in order to express our concern.
That is the necessary condition for peace in the region.
But if we in the European Union want to make our voice heard more clearly in Israel, which we do, and if we want to have more influence on the decisions taken by the State of Israel, we have no option but to approve this agreement.
However, I think that the scientific cooperation agreement with Israel appears, at first glance, to be an essentially technical document that could stand in the way of the development of cooperation between universities and research institutes elsewhere in the Mediterranean.
There is a risk that the adoption of this agreement could be seen as an electoral tactic and a positive sign for the Israeli Government, which would be encouraged to continue blocking the peace process.
The Palestinians are already under considerable pressure to abandon their decision to proclaim a Palestinian State on 4 May 1999.
We must use all the means at our disposal to put pressure on Israel, on Netanyahu's government, to respect its commitments.
We have the ideal opportunity to do so by postponing the vote on this scientific cooperation agreement until after the Israeli elections.
This would not, in fact, be the first time, as in January 1990, Parliament blocked the scientific cooperation agreement so that Palestinian universities would be reopened; at that time, they had been closed for over two years.
This applies particularly to the nuclear sector: ten years ago I spent some time outside Mordechai Vanunu's prison in Gaza trying to visit him.
I will certainly be voting in favour of the report, as long as there is a commitment that we will not cooperate in the nuclear area.
Mr President, I would also like to express my thanks for this report, especially for the conclusions that are drawn in it, and above all for its desire to support the peace process by means of cooperation between Israeli and Palestinian research bodies.
The problem with this agreement is that no mention is made of cooperation between Palestinian research bodies.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman of the Delegation for relations with Israel, I would like to welcome the fact that our colleague Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl has proposed that the new scientific and technical cooperation agreement between the European Union and the State of Israel be approved.
As many people have pointed out this morning, this is the result of particularly effective joint work: since 1996, 369 joint projects have received subsidies amounting to a total of more than ECU 59 million.
And the Israeli authorities have made commitments to this end.
The Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament is now able to make a decision on this matter.
In 1996, the Union and Israel signed a scientific and technical cooperation agreement for the duration of the fourth framework programme.
All the evidence shows that the participation of Israeli institutions brings a considerable added value to our programmes.
The Israeli authorities would like this agreement to be implemented as quickly as possible.
With this in mind, the Commission and the Israeli authorities completed the negotiations in the record time of three weeks.
As the rapporteur points out, it is important, from this point of view, for Israeli and Palestinian research institutes to be able to strengthen their cooperation.
This work has already begun and such cooperation will be particularly encouraged within the framework of the international section of the fifth framework programme, which gives priority to actions in the Mediterranean region.
Above and beyond its intrinsic interest, cooperation between the Union and Israel in research is part of a broad political perspective.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
So far so good.
The Commission proposes that a substantial proportion of the costs of receiving and processing the waste should be paid by all those using the port.
Because I think it is extremely important to prevent ships from having a financial incentive to dump their cargo or cargo residues at sea outside the port.
If only a small part of the costs are shared in the port dues, then there will always be an incentive for vessels to consider dumping their waste at sea.
The second point on which we think the proposal could be tightened up is the monitoring of compliance.
It must be possible - and it is already possible - for ports to inform each other about the situation of vessels sailing to and fro between them or calling in at subsequent ports.
Instead of this we would prefer to use a figure which the Commission itself suggested in earlier regulations, so that 25 % of all vessels must be inspected.
The Commission itself has admitted that it was a mistake that its proposal excludes all fishing vessels.
My conclusion - and this is perhaps more of a comment on EU proposals in general - is that all too often, the Commission and sometimes Parliament too put forward proposals that are difficult to implement because they do not correspond to the situation in practice.
It is precisely because these plans are already being made and the proposal dovetails with them that I think the Commission proposal is a necessary, useful and viable attempt to prevent the dumping of waste at sea.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the British Presidency put marine pollution on the agenda, following quite a few requests from the Committee on Transport and Tourism, among others, there were many of us who said: At last!
In my opinion, it is essential that this directive should be made as functional as possible.
The rapporteur has touched on one of them.
At any rate, I should like to highlight two things.
It is to be expected that one port or another will try to offer a particularly attractive scale of charges or to obtain particularly large profit margins in order to secure a competitive edge in the usual conflict, so to speak, that occurs between ports over cargoes.
That, Commissioner, should not be a problem either, since we have the same figure of 25 % in the port state control directive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive that has been submitted to us responds to a perfectly commendable objective, as it aims to ensure better protection of the marine environment.
It would be unfortunate if the Union tried to interfere in that management through environmental issues.
With these reservations, we approve and support the proposal for a directive, as amended by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
To conclude, I would like to commend the excellent work carried out by the rapporteur and congratulate him on the quality of his report.
The requirement that ships discharge their waste in port follows the same elementary logic.
On the one hand, as the rapporteur said, is it important that the polluter should pay, as in other situations.
In this case, the Commission proposal was a necessary and desirable addition to existing legislation on the protection of the marine environment and the creation of fair conditions of competition between the ports of the Community.
Mr President, we are all familiar with pictures of birds and fish fighting that final, impossible battle against oil spills and other waste from our ships along our coastlines, because the international conventions which prohibit dumping at sea are not being enforced.
Specifically, the Commission can accept at least the underlying principles of Amendments Nos 1, 3 4, 5, 12, 16, 17 and 18 (England 0, France 2 - I thought I might get that in).
There is, however, another set of amendments which the Commission must reject, mainly on the grounds that it feels that the concerns expressed have already been dealt with in other parts of the existing text.
Amendments Nos 2 and 7 propose to extend the obligation to notify the onboard waste situation in writing to fishing vessels over 15 metres.
The Commission's concern is that this could easily lead to an excessively bureaucratic system without bringing any substantial benefit to the environment.
In the case of fishing vessels, the port will generally be very familiar with the needs of the vessels, even without a written notification.
Here the objectives of Parliament and the Commission are absolutely the same: all of us want to achieve a charging system in which ships are not given incentives to discharge waste at sea.
The Commission's proposal seeks to strike a balance between the need to make the best possible progress in encouraging waste delivery to ports and the plain political reality of taking into account the very different views of Member States on this issue.
The end result of both Parliament's and the Commission's approach is that fees cannot only be based on actual delivery.
In addition, we should bear in mind that ports, marinas and fishing ports in Member States are obviously very different, not just between but also within Member States.
Amendment No 9 is unacceptable because the Commission can adequately deal with competition matters under the powers it already has under the Treaty.
Finally, we cannot accept Amendment No 11, which relates to the number of spot-check inspections to be carried out for control purposes.
Clearly, as Mr Jarzembowski said and as other Members have noted, in the course of the normal port state control check, it would be extraordinary if the inspector taking his 25 % quota, as it were, were not to pay attention to the waste-disposal situation on board the craft.
However, in the course of the further development of this legislation, I will be in a position to give a more specific response.
The debate is closed.
However, the situation is disappointing: combined transport accounts for only 5 % of the total freight transported by road, in spite of all the encouragement which Parliament has given.
First, it broadens the definition of combined transport, which now applies not just between Member States but also within one Member State.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism has a number of comments on the Commission proposal.
This is why we propose that the distance travelled by road in combined transport operations should be limited to 40 % of the total journey.
The problems of combined transport can largely be put down to variations in the services provided by the railways and the high transshipment costs which combined transport inevitably involves.
This would first of all undermine the generally accepted 40 tonne limit established in order to prevent damage to the infrastructure.
I therefore commend these proposed amendments by the Committee on Transport and Tourism to the House.
When the Commission proposes in Article 9a that goods vehicles be exempted from all restrictions on traffic movements that may be applicable at weekends, at night, on public holidays or in the event of heavy atmospheric pollution, provided they constitute combined transport within the meaning of Article 1, this would open a Pandora's box, which we cannot endorse.
We are willing to negotiate about precise times and routes in this Parliament too, but this blanket clause, this carte blanche , cannot be in our interests.
That is why the Commission must think again on this in order to come up with a better proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the shortness of time, I can only state that we essentially agree with the Socialists and in particular with the rapporteur.
I would add that, structurally speaking, a total weight of 44 tonnes or 40 tonnes makes no difference to the infrastructure whatsoever.
We think the road transport legs should be limited to a maximum of 200 kilometres but an increase in the maximum weight to 44 tonnes is unacceptable.
In Finland yesterday it was revealed that the Bank of Finland, which belongs to the European Central Bank organisation, pays Sirkka Hämäläinen, who is on the board of the European Central Bank, a pension of around EUR 10 000 a month in addition.
As I have the floor for a moment, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues for the vote and to inform them that I have analysed the Commission's position on each of the amendments that were tabled and adopted.
Mr President, the report on which we are about to vote, the White report, is, in my view, the most important report for the physical territory of many countries of southern Europe and even for European agriculture.
Since it is likely that there will be few Members here for the vote this evening, I would ask you, along with the rapporteur and our colleagues here, to agree to postpone the vote on this report to the next part-session in Brussels to be held in 12 days' time.
Mr White and Mr Aparicio, the decision will have to be taken in due course, at the beginning of the vote.
The permitted planting areas cannot sustain a self-sufficiency policy for the European Union, with 14 % of trade already in the hands of third countries.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations voted in favour of almost all of the amendments that were adopted in the Committee on Agriculture as they reflected our position.
During the debate on the Martin report in the House, Commissioner Fischler made a speech in which he expressed views that were contrary to the interests of French and European wine growing.
With regard to the ban on importing musts from third countries for wine making, Commissioner Fischler said that he disagreed with the European Parliament's position, basing his argument on the WTO agreements and stating that suitable 'labelling' regulations would be introduced.
The amendment as adopted in the report reflects the very same current legislation that was consolidated in the GATT.
As far as planting rights are concerned, the Commissioner says that he still favours limiting the growth of European vineyards to 1 % in the 2000-2010 period.
The European Parliament wanted 3 % growth in order to enable vineyards with structural problems to adapt to their market without relocating from regions of production where the product is less highly valued.
As regards the promotion measures, the Commissioner stated that they would be subject to a horizontal regulation, that is, one that is valid for all so-called quality agricultural and food products.
It is highly probable that of the financial resources to be used for this horizontal regulation, the majority will be used for agricultural and food products that are produced in all the Member States of the European Union, such as milk products and meat products.
However, I was pleased to note that the Commissioner took account of all the amendments tabled by Parliament on trade organisations.
I must point out that the European Union is the world leader in terms of wine making, and alone accounts for 80 % of world trade in this sector.
Rather than trying to preserve this dominant position on the world market, the Commission is taking an approach that puts constraints on the European wine-making industry.
Wine producers are farmers, and must therefore be entitled to EU support in the same way as other farmers.
Wine is a natural product which, taken regularly and in moderation, is beneficial to health.
Almost five years after the Fantuzzi report, Parliament has to deal again with a proposal from the Commission on the common organisation of the market in wine.
Above all, there must be a reduction in large-scale distillation, in other words the organised destruction of wine, before it reaches the market.
In order to maintain this link, we must prevent the development of a dangerous shift, that is, the possibility of making wine from musts imported from third countries.
Our colleague Mr Chesa, who comes from one of the most important wine-making regions in Europe, rightly highlighted the risks of a reduction in quality and of breaking the link between product and land that this move would entail.
However, Commissioner Fischler argued that this position was not well-founded, considering that the provisions of the Marrakesh agreement establishing the WTO no longer allowed the countries of the European Union to declare such a ban.
We in turn contest Mr Fischler's interpretation, as the proposals in the Martin report merely take up the exact provisions of the COM in wine which are consolidated in the GATT.
I have, moreover, addressed a written question to the Commission on this fundamental point, and this must be clarified quickly.
The Alleanza Nazionale is voting in favour although, personally, I am only partly satisfied.
While other world wine producers have a free hand, this restriction represents a serious threat to the Union's dominant position on the world market, where Europe currently accounts for over 50 % of total production.-Maintaining the status quo on enrichment with sucrose to obtain the final alcohol content of wines is unacceptable.
In fact, if the Commission's approach were accepted, Italy would be at a distinct disadvantage compared with Spain, which currently meets the provisions in the proposal.-Finally, under Commission Decision No 94/173/EC of 22 March 1994, the wine-growing sector should be included amongst those benefiting from aid for product transformation and processing.
It is true that the choice has still not been formally announced between socialist or Liberal-style euro management institutions, but, in short, that choice has been largely predetermined.
We would like to thank the rapporteur for the accomplished work that has been put into this important report.
We believe that there is good reason to highlight the need for an effective consensus with regard to the policy on EMU and other policy areas, such as employment and social policy, the overall macroeconomic policy and environmental policy.
In our opinion, it is essential above all that the Community should increase its efforts to achieve more active employment and social policies and better coordination of overall macroeconomic policy.
In our view, this is a valid position even in the context of enlargement.
One example of these essentially unclear definitions is the committee's paragraph 18 on 'federal-style' budgetary systems.
The fact that the report as a whole contains certain weaknesses does not mean that we believe it should be rejected in its entirety.
There will be a common economic policy and a common tax policy.
In addition, a 'federal-style' budgetary system will be created - a budget that will be used to resolve crisis situations in the individual Member States.
To put it more directly: the report is canvassing for the establishment of a federal state with a federal budget at its disposal, similar to the federal system that exists in federal states such as Germany and the USA.
The transition to the euro is the result of the political will demonstrated by the Union and its Member States.
Coordinating economic policies becomes a pressing need if we wish to promote an efficient and competitive European economy, which - as our resolution states - is also able to generate jobs, solidarity, economic and social cohesion and equal opportunities between citizens of all the Member States.
In order to attain this, we now need to openly declare our commitment to an economic and social union as well as to define a new 'social contract' that establishes the common principles in social matters.
I therefore voted against this report.
In my opinion, it is important to ensure that a healthy balance exists between decisions taken at national and supranational level.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party welcomes much of the Barros Moura report, and the attention it pays to the political consequences of Economic and Monetary Union.
However, we have major reservations about some aspects of the report.
In paragraph one, second indent, we cannot support the implication that social security must be harmonised to make EMU a success.
We therefore voted against paragraph 8.
We are concerned about the proposals to extend QMV to the management of economic policy and voted against paragraphs 10, 16 and 20.
Paragraph 14 calls for the Euro Council to be enshrined in the Treaty.
Bourlanges report (A4-0049/99) Mr President, we believe that of all the European institutions, the Council of Ministers and, to a greater extent, the European Council, possess the greatest relative legitimacy because people see their elected representatives meet in these institutions at the highest level.
Therefore, the Council must be granted the right to propose legislation and exercise control over the Commission, even censure it.
In fact, the system of unanimous voting forces each partner to respect the point of view of others and endeavour to understand that point of view in order to negotiate better.
An enlarged Europe with 25 or 30 members should be able to operate in this way.
In any case, we have to accept that a Europe with 25 members cannot be monolithic and must obey the model of variable geometry.
Our view is that the Council plays - and should continue to play - a central role with regard to the EU and the CFSP.
We would refer to the political spirit underpinning Article J.7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, where it is stated that the Council shall be responsible for decisions in all areas affecting the Union's security.
The rapporteur's paragraphs 10, 13 and 14 are not acceptable in the light of this.
We cannot therefore support paragraphs 30 and 31.
We support the forward thinking in the Bourlanges report about the way the Council should operate in an enlarged European Union.
As regards the way in which the Council of Ministers currently operates, and following the rapporteur's example, I am actively campaigning for a rehabilitation of its role: in my view, it must be the Union's driving force.
Lastly, as regards the system of procedures and, more specifically, the general principle of qualified majority voting, I believe that this system should be extended.
I am not opposed to the principle of the double majority, which to me seems more fair and legitimate than the present weighting system.
This prerequisite is not, in my view, designed to hinder the process but, on the contrary, aims to establish the foundations of a political Europe that is able to take responsibility for the choices it makes.
During the discussion on this report, my concern - in thinking about European citizens - was to extract clear principles from the recitals which will push the European project towards the objectives of our efforts and proposals.
The Union must progress towards a model which clearly reveals its dual nature as a union between Member States on the one hand, and as a union between peoples on the other.
I was pleased to note that the rapporteur had recommended that the weighting system be maintained until this double majority is adopted.
Any further enlargements are likely to hamper a system which, in its time, has proved its worth, but which was never designed to function with 15 members and less still with 20 or 25 members.
I lay great emphasis on the role the rapporteur would like to see conferred on both the President of the Commission and the High Representative for the CFSP, instead of and in place of a Council presidency that is forced to concentrate on its conciliation duties.
This effectively implies a new division of tasks that is likely to give fresh impetus to the Union.
In this connection, I fully approve of the idea that qualified majority voting should become the general procedure for decision-making in the Council.
I am disturbed that three quarters of this House should be backing a report which unequivocally advocates such a radical institutional overhaul of the EU, without there having been any proper airing of the issues in the Member States or among ordinary citizens.
I therefore voted against the report.
Nevertheless, the EPLP has serious reservations about some aspects of the report.
We voted against paragraph 10, which suggests that the leadership of the EU and the conduct of foreign policy will have to be handed over to the Commission President and the High Representatives of the CFSP, while the Council presidency concentrates on its conciliation tasks.
We therefore voted against paragraph 23.
We therefore voted against paragraphs 28, 30, 32 and 33.
Gutiérrez Díaz report (A4-0034/99) We fully endorse the assessment of the Treaty of Amsterdam offered by the rapporteur in paragraph 1, where he says that the new provisions in many ways constitute a new stage in the development of the European Union.
On paragraph 13, we feel that it would be inappropriate, in the current circumstances, for the European Parliament to propose that 'police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters ...
The free movement of persons naturally goes hand in hand with the creation of an area of security and justice which also enjoys enhanced police and judicial cooperation and respect for transparency and legal certainty.
It therefore falls to the various institutions to act promptly, each in the area of its responsibilities, in order to meet people's expectations.
I am absolutely convinced that it would be beneficial for everyone if the Council and the Commission were more open in their cooperation with the European Parliament, in these areas, as in many others.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party voted for the Gutiérrez Díaz report, but with reservations.
We abstained on paragraph 6, which is critical of the use of unanimity in the Third Pillar, and paragraph 8, which calls for co-decision for Third Pillar decisions.
We abstained on paragraphs 10 and 19 on the Court of Justice and voted against paragraph 11, calling for the incorporation of Schengen into the Treaty, and paragraph 12, which criticises the Danish, Irish and UK opt-out.
The Amsterdam Treaty has not even come into force and would be better judged after it has been tested in practice.
Paragraph 28 calls for funding for transnational political parties.
Bowe report (A4-0024/99) Mr President, the Green Group voted against this report because we feel it does not go far enough.
We then had to propose 12 years because the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is supposed to protect public health and the environment, actually weakened the proposal and took out the time limit.
So it was essential that we put some amendment in.
Member States who feel it is important to protect the environment and public health will be side-lined.
In certain areas we voted for the 12 year time limit but later on there were other votes taken which seemed to confuse the whole issue.
One of the most disappointing things is the fact that the Environment Committee and the Socialist Group, along with the PPE in this House, have collaborated with industries' interests instead of with the interests of public health and consumer protection and the environment.
We shall see what the Council makes of it, and whether we can still pull the fat out of the fire together and initiate something that will really take us forward.
The Bowe report will subsequently translate into the legislation to govern the crops grown and the food eaten throughout Europe.
I call on all Irish MEPs to support socio-economic provisions along with public liability.
And yet, in spite of this somewhat dramatic title, the actual context of the text turns out to be quite vague, to the extent that 177 Members - including those from the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations - out of 439 saw fit to oppose it.
For example, the European Parliament has just voted in favour of some interesting amendments that recognise civil liability and force people to take out sufficient liability insurance to cover the losses that might be incurred by persons releasing GMOs.
First, it confirms that a centralised procedure in Brussels for the release of GMOs is planned for the majority of cases without any safeguard for Member States who would like to adopt more stringent measures.
This undoubtedly signifies a victory for pressure groups who have been lobbying the larger parties in this House, both the Socialists and the Christian Democrats.
Along with the rest of the Green Group, I therefore voted against the report.
Many of today's amendments to the Commission proposal for the release of genetically engineered organisms in the environment would result in excessively restrictive legislation for the biotechnology sector, putting the food industry and the EU's competitive position at a disadvantage compared with the US.
The position of our group regarding the Commission's communication on biotechnology favours some degree of development in this sunrise industry, while taking great care to anticipate potential drifts.
It takes 15 years for experiments to be carried out on medicines before they can be placed on the market.
According to Professor Cabrol, we should not ban GMO production in Europe and thus let the Americans have a monopoly on GMO products.
The only acceptable answer for the sake of public health is to ban the import of such products altogether.
The Labour Government has proven its commitment to the welfare of consumers by creating the FSA (Food Standards Agency).
Madam President, the presidential elections in Kazakhstan on 10 January were a slap in the face for the partnership and cooperation agreement that the Union signed with that country.
The suspension of cooperation must be a real option if he cannot guarantee that the forthcoming elections will be truly democratic.
In the meantime, we must step up cooperation with social organisations and the free press to promote democracy in Kazakhstan.
Madam President, it is essential that we work for consolidation of the democratisation process in Kazakhstan, ensuring that developments take place in the interest of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The partnership agreement signed with the EU stipulates that Kazakhstan must comply with OSCE rules for free and fair elections.
Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I wish to say how profoundly disappointed we were in the conduct of the recent presidential elections in Kazakhstan.
At the same time the Commission must monitor the human rights situation in Kazakhstan closely and report back to this House on progress, or the lack of it.
The only reason why I wanted to say that is that I believe we ought not to forget, in our dialogue with Kazakhstan, how important this country is, not only for our own future but also for that of the entire region.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of Parliament's delegation for relations with Kazakhstan and other countries in Central Asia, I closely followed the news we received about the progress of the presidential elections held in Kazakhstan on 10 January.
I would like to end by warning you that this resolution must be seen more as a statement of help and understanding than as a reproach.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the points that have been made about the need to see Kazakhstan in a historical perspective and about the importance of Kazakhstan to us and in the region and also about the fact that we have to encourage Kazakhstan to move further, to say when things have gone wrong but to do it in the right way.
The resolutions are based in part on the statement made on 20 January by the presidency on behalf of the European Union.
President Nazarbayev announced last October a wide-ranging programme aimed at the gradual democratisation of Kazakh society.
The Kazakh Government has assured us that it intends to cooperate with the OSCE and the EU in implementing this programme, in particular regarding the law on parliamentary elections which will be held in the course of this year.
The first cooperation Council has already been scheduled for July, and it is the Council's intention to continue the exchanges of view on the democratisation process and to incorporate these into the political dialogue foreseen in the PCA.
These elections were the first in the history of the country to be contested by a number of candidates.
I am firmly of the view that the only way to improve the situation is through constant patient work on the part of the EU and other donors and international organisations.
The Commission will keep Parliament informed of developments in Kazakhstan and other countries of the region with regard to the implementation of our agreements.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, after the cease-fire, the senseless war between Ethiopia and Eritrea has broken out once again.
All the efforts of the UN, IGAD and the OAU have come to nothing, but I hope that they will not give up.
The disastrous effect that this is having on the people and the economy of both countries is indescribable.
I have to say that the situation in this area of Africa deserves to be given our fullest attention.
On the border between Ethiopa and Eritrea, serious conflicts occurred between those two countries in May and June of last year.
That is why it is also right to threaten them with suspension of support under the Lomé Convention and of development aid from the European Union and its Member States.
The OAU proposal for an agreement between the two countries must be accepted by both parties without further delay, before the situation on the ground renders it obsolete.
So we call on the Council to take a clear and strong political initiative along these lines, and on the Commission to ensure that the thousands of refugees and victims of the conflict receive the maximum humanitarian assistance wherever possible.
Madam President, alas the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has a long history, but so have human rights abuses in Ethiopia, as all of us know only too well.
Madam President, in yesterday's International Herald Tribune, the following appeared in the section 'News from 50 years ago'.
I believe that this is enormously important if we bear in mind on the one hand that the war which we now experiencing between Ethiopia and Eritrea was entirely foreseeable, and on the other hand that the settlement of this conflict will surely be frustrated by a real lack of democracy in both countries.
The Commission has underlined on several occasions, to both governments, the need to resolve and settle the conflict by peaceful means alone.
As regards the humanitarian situation the Commission is providing humanitarian assistance to both countries and has responded to appeals from both to assist the displaced population in the area of conflict.
The Commission has allocated EUR 1 790 000 to two NGOs: Norwegian Church Aid and the Lutheran World Foundation for food and non-food assistance to persons affected by the conflict in Eritrea.
In Ethiopia the Commission has allotted EUR 1 890 000 through CISP, an Italian NGO, also for food and non-food assistance.
The Commission is preparing a communication to the Council on cooperation with ACP countries involved in armed conflicts.
In the meantime, in the absence of a European Union position on the matter, the Commission does not think it should take unilateral and isolated measures in the case of this conflict.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, the European Parliament has always rejected the death penalty outright on humanitarian grounds.
Let me turn to our group's amendments on two cases involving Germans - the brothers Karl and Walter LaGrand, who have been sentenced to death in Arizona.
Madam President, during December's part-session, the American delegation led by Angela Davis, who had come to prevent Mumia Abu-Jamal from being executed, alerted us to the fate of Leonard Peltier.
Amnesty International, the IFHR and France Liberté have launched a new campaign to defend Leonard Peltier and fight the unacceptable number of human rights violations in the United States.
We should, for our part, once again participate in this action and ensure that public opinion is alerted throughout Europe.
If Parliament adopts the resolution cosigned by my group, it will be sending a clear message to the American authorities and prison directors.
Madam President, I have always advocated the principle whereby the European Union must first of all put its own house in order before giving human rights lessons the world over.
The latest report on human rights in the European Union shows that we are far from being beyond reproach in this area.
In other words, if I take the floor today to speak about the case of Leonard Peltier, it is because all other possible avenues have genuinely been exhausted and time is short, given the worrying state of Mr Peltier's health.
I believe it is very important to do what Parliament is doing today, to hold a mirror in front of the Americans and to tell them that, if they must try to force their values on everyone else, they should also acknowledge that there are sections of the population of their own country - some of them native Americans - who may have other ideals in some respects, a different bond with their own country, with their own native soil, than the Americans who arrived later.
In this situation, it is very useful for us to keep returning to the specific case of Leonard Peltier.
Peltier has now been kept in prison for 23 years under exceedingly dubious circumstances.
This just goes to show that not only the US population but also the international community are really unwilling to accept such injustice from a country that is constantly preaching justice.
Madam President, it is with a feeling of dismay and deep anguish that we again raise our voices on behalf of Leonard Peltier, languishing in an American jail for 23 years for crimes he did not commit and after a court case which cast serious doubt on the administration of justice in the United States of America.
Representative, Joe Kennedy, the son of the martyred President, recently said: 'This government has the moral duty to correct this injustice.
To deprive a person of 23 years of his life, to cast an Indian into prison and give him no opportunities to move about, to give him literally not a single moment of freedom and to leave him languishing in uncertainty is utterly indefensible.
It is an issue which symbolises the treatment of American indigenous peoples, a matter very dear to the heart of this Parliament and I hope that we adopt the resolution.
Freedom of religious observance is a sign of respect, not only for a very profound sense of devotion within many people but also for freedom of expression and association, and hence for a significant part of the corpus of human rights.
We also know that these waves of persecution are not always unleashed by governments.
It would be impossible to list all the countries involved.
The toleration of these persecutions and the forms they take cause us grave concern.
They range from horrific murders, as in the case of the Australian missionary Graham Staines and his two children in India, to arrests, torture and the disappearance of individuals; they extend to trials on trumped-up charges.
Abuse of religious freedom is symptomatic of the abuse of human rights.
The European Parliament will not cease to ask searching questions on these matters.
In many countries, people are still not free to express their religious beliefs in public or to follow their faith as they would wish.
There is clearly a link between the increase in attacks in India and the fact that the BJP, an extremist Hindu nationalist party, has come to power.
With this resolution Parliament is making a clear appeal to countries and governments to take a responsible approach in dealing with religious minorities living in their territory.
If the situation does not change, the European Parliament and the Member States may wish to consider whether the events in India should affect their dealings with that country.
Any respectable government must help to ensure that minorities in its country can live in freedom and can pursue their faith as they see fit.
These killings and other attacks have been unreservedly condemned by the World Hindu Council.
India, you have our love, our respect and our prayers in this difficult time.
We should realise that Christianity has flourished in India for 2000 years - longer, in fact, than here in Europe.
Madam President, the Liberal Group has always stood up for human rights in general, and of course the right to freedom of religion deserves attention as part of this.
I know that I am entering dangerous territory here, but from time immemorial, the greatest violations of human rights have been carried out in the name of religion.
The Liberal Group calls on the Commission and the Council to remain vigilant and to take account of religious freedom when assessing the human rights situation in third countries.
Mr Bertens, I deliberately allowed you to exceed your time, as you are one of the most regular attenders in this House.
I would point out here that in Orissa, where a missionary and his two children were brutally murdered, it is not the BJP that is in power, contrary to what some people think, but the Congress Party, to which the likely murderer also belongs.
All this should prompt Europe to stress its wholehearted support for the basic principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, making respect for those principles a prerequisite determining the very nature of the bilateral relations Member States maintain with countries which flagrantly disregard them.
We also welcome the adoption by the UN Human Rights Commission on 2 April 1998 of a resolution which calls for countries that have not yet abolished the death penalty to apply a moratorium on the execution of death penalties with a view to abolition.
The Commission is greatly concerned about the rising number of executions taking place in the United States.
As the Commissioner responsible for relations with the United States, I have no embarrassment or hesitation in raising this issue with them: it is appropriate that one should do so with a country with which we have close links and which has expressed on numerous occasions its concern about human rights elsewhere.
We will carefully follow up this case, and look forward to the exchanges on this issue at the next meeting between the European Parliament Delegation for relations with the United States and the United States' Congress.
On the question of freedom of religion, I am glad that it has been broadened out and has not concentrated entirely on the situation in India, because it is right to say that there are problems, to put it mildly, with regard to freedom of religion in many countries, and it would be misleading to focus only on India.
Nonetheless, there has been a certain topicality with regard to the reports about attacks on Christians in India, which are deeply worrying.
The Commission's delegation, which continues to keep us fully informed on the situation as it develops, is fully associated with Member States' missions in monitoring the situation.
The issue is now highly politicised in India and it has the potential to affect the political situation there - reference has been made to the statement by the Prime Minister which, of course, we have noted.
The issue is dividing not only Opposition and Government but is also controversial within the BJP itself.
The Commission fully endorses the objectives of racial tolerance, social harmony and full respect for human rights which underpin the European Parliament's motion for a resolution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
After the November 1998 agreement and the new agreement at the start of this year, violence has broken out once again between the troops of President Vieira and General Ansumane Mane.
The conflict of June 1998 has returned and people are once again fleeing in large numbers.
Mr President, Commissioner, war has returned to Guinea-Bissau.
The European Parliament must show its solidarity with the people of Guinea-Bissau, who are suffering in this civil war.
The European Parliament must demand respect for the Abuja agreements which provide for the formation of a government of national unity and the organisation of presidential and legislative elections, respecting the independence and territorial integrity of Guinea-Bissau.
The presence of foreign troops, notably from Senegal and the Republic of Guinea, whom international human rights organisations are accusing of human rights violations against civilians, is aggravating that danger.
The people of Guinea-Bissau desperately need help, and this means strengthening humanitarian aid and ensuring that aid actually reaches the people who need it.
Here I would stress the importance of neutral non-governmental organisations operating on the ground.
It is vital to observe the Abuja agreement and rapidly establish ECOMOG, the peace-keeping force of the Economic Community of West African States.
President João Bernardo Vieira and General Mané have to bear the heavy responsibility of enabling and ensuring compliance with the agreement they have signed, by stabilising the situation in Guinea-Bissau, installing the new government of national unity, organising free elections and allowing the country to develop.
And given much of the news published in the media, I would like to ask if the Commission can give Parliament any information guaranteeing that there are no military forces from any Member State of the Union involved in this sad conflict, which we hope to see ended as rapidly as possible.
The Council and the Commission must insist on that.
Since 3 February another cease-fire has been in force.
We call on the government to reform itself into a government of national unity.
They must observe international law and human rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, first I would like to welcome this joint motion for a resolution and stress our joint condemnation of the new wave of violence in Guinea-Bissau and our demand for full implementation of the cease-fire agreed on 3 February.
Recent events have frustrated the hopes raised by the Abuja agreement of 1 November, hopes that the conflict might be over and that Guinea-Bissau, and especially its martyred people, might enjoy the peace needed to recover from a situation of enormous economic backwardness, aggravated by the destruction and chaos provoked by the conflict which broke out last June.
Withdrawal of all foreign military forces not in the territory in strict compliance with that agreement, like the troops from Senegal and the Republic of Guinea, is a prerequisite for implementing the agreement and for the government of national unity to take office in line with that agreement.
A political solution must be found which guarantees peace, respects what has already been agreed, does not undermine the independence and territorial integrity of Guinea-Bissau and puts an end to a tragic situation which is destroying a country and a people.
The situation was beginning to improve.
Mr President, I can be comparatively brief because the Commission shares the view set out in Parliament's proposed resolution.
Through ECHO we are providing, I hope, speedy and effective humanitarian assistance to meet the population's needs.
We are aware of the role played by ECOWAS in the international community's efforts to maintain stability in the region and we support the Abuja agreement including the deployment of ECOMOG troops in Guinea-Bissau.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
Agricultural production in the islands in 1997 amounted to 105 495 million pesetas and the damage to agricultural production represents 14.4 % of the damage to infrastructure and about 16.7 % of 1997 turnover.
We are also concerned about the effects of the storm on the turnover of agricultural producers for 1999 (and consequently, on the Canary Islands' economy) and we call on the Commission to provide the aid necessary to mitigate the damage suffered in this sector.
So I urge President Pastrana and the Colombian Government to take firm measures to restore public order in the disaster areas while respecting human rights, and to take all measures necessary to ensure that emergency aid reaches its proper destination.
But most of all I hope this terrible event will not disturb the peace process under way in Colombia, which is already difficult enough.
And I call on the Commission and the Governments of the Member States to cooperate with the appropriate NGOs in making every possible effort to resolve this crisis and to implement a special development programme to meet the medium- and long-term needs of the earthquake zone.
Mr Brittan, I am addressing you directly because if you read our motion for a resolution you will see that it relates to the serious damage that has been caused to agriculture in the Canary Islands.
I am telling you this because when we hold talks in Washington with a government that talks about defending free competition, I think we should let them know that our banana plantations have to contend with adverse climatic conditions and that in some regions of the Community, both in the West Indies and in the Canary Islands and Madeira, such catastrophes often occur.
The Commission has always been very receptive to the problems experienced in these regions.
We are now asking, among other things, that it should implement as soon as possible the new Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which provides for special measures for these regions precisely because of the adverse conditions affecting their economies.
As has already been pointed out, and as you are all aware, at the beginning of January the Canary Islands were hit by a violent storm that has led to significant economic losses in terms of both infrastructure and agricultural production.
However, we can see to it that the donations from European and other countries are used as transparently and effectively as possible so as to prevent any doubts about embezzlement or the misuse of the funds.
We must also welcome the fact that Mr Pastrana has made a commitment to eliminate corruption and that while those most in need are receiving aid, human rights are being respected in Columbia.
We must learn the lessons too, for despite the early announcement of assistance which we welcome, no international aid had arrived locally a full 48 hours after the earthquake struck.
We call on President Pastrana not simply to attack fraud and corruption but also to promulgate that bill.
It must be said that the Commission is to be congratulated on the speed with which it responded to the crisis and in particular the way in which it cooperated with NGOs in the region.
Therefore, a very comprehensive aid and development programme is required to meet the long-term needs of the country and its people.
Mr President, everyday life in Colombia is grim.
Mr President, dealing first with the situation in the Canary Islands, the Commission is well aware of the terrible storms which hit the islands between 6 and 9 January.
I am grateful for the further information supplied by the honourable Members in their resolution and also in the speeches that have been made.
As far as the issue of bananas is concerned, I am well aware of the particular role that industry plays in the economy of the Canary Islands and have particular sympathy for what has occurred, coupled with the other problems which we dealt with last night.
We are very sensitive to the difficulties that have arisen as a result and we will be looking carefully at the situation as a whole in the light of the instruments and regulatory provisions that may be available to give assistance.
So that those involved can make a proper study for the Commission, what we would like the Spanish authorities to do, is to provide, as soon as possible, detailed information about the nature of the severe weather, its impact on production and production potential in the region as well as the damage caused to the infrastructure.
If we receive a formal request from the Spanish Government at the next meeting of the monitoring committees for structural assistance in the Canary Islands and the Objective 1 Community Support Framework for Spain, we will look into the possibilities of reprogramming current structural assistance in partnership with the national and regional authorities as well as any allocation from other resources available as a contribution to repairing the infrastructures damaged by the storms in question.
The Commission was able to announce on 26 January a timely contribution to international relief efforts, and I am grateful for the kind words that have been spoken this afternoon about what the Commission has been able to do.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
I have the German version in front of me.
I just wanted to ask whether others have read the resolution and whether their versions contain the text.
Mr Posselt, I am sure every Member has read it.
There must have been a mistake in the particular text that you were given.
The resolution on Kazakhstan, at least in the German version, consists of two straight lines.
VOTES (continuation) Mr President, I wish to make one or two points about the vote.
They are not compromise amendments in the way we normally understand them, that is to say compromise amendments between political groups.
It is absolutely imperative that we, having agreed those compromise amendments between the water rapporteurs, now agree to endorse them because the German presidency, which was not represented at last night's debate, has stated in a letter: 'The German presidency is hoping to achieve a common position on the draft directive at the March Council.
I have had no formal request from any of the political groups or any wish expressed by 29 members.
Mr President, what you have just said about the request is proper but the trouble was that I could not get the consent of my Group to have this matter put over until next week.
After the vote on Amendment No 165 Mr President, I wonder whether the political groups which are asking for so many roll call votes are aware that each roll-call vote costs the European taxpayer EUR 300.
Mr President, may I simply ask the questioner whether he knows how important it is for the public to know who bears political responsibility and how much that knowledge is worth?
Laughter I am tempted to have a roll-call vote on whether roll-call votes are worthwhile but that would be absurd.
Parliament adopted the legislative resolution Mr President, this has been a very long and complicated vote but it is a very satisfactory conclusion.
However, I want to draw the House's attention to the fact that, firstly, it was made necessary by the fact that the Council reached a political agreement on this at a very early stage.
Secondly, the satisfactory result would not have been possible without the immense work by Mr White.
In the vote on the previous report you always identified the group which called for the roll call vote, which caused some discomfort for our colleagues in the Green Group.
On Amendment No 44 Mr President, I should like to point out to the House that in Amendment No 44, in the second indent of point 2(a), the German wording 'entfernen pyrotechnische Komponenten ' must be replaced by 'neutralisieren pyrotechnische Komponenten ' in order to make the wording consistent with the rest of the legislative text.
Parliament adopted the legislative resolution I have received a request under Rule 129 from the Group of the United Left to refer this report back to committee.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I request that the Quisthoudt-Rowohl report should be referred back to committee, under Rule 129, for the following reasons: we think the adoption of the report at this time may be interpreted as interference in the electoral processes of a sovereign state, Israel, and - regardless of its merits or intentions - as explicit support for one of the more controversial parties in the election, specifically that of candidate Benjamin Netanyahu.
Mr President, the Socialist Group supports Mr Aldo's motion for a resolution in general terms.
Compromise Amendments Nos 194 and 195 take account of the fact that the protection of marine waters is already covered by international agreements.
The Commission's proposal establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy is a reworking and combination of a number of directives currently in force on the quality of surface and bathing waters, waters used for fish and shellfish farming and waters for human consumption, on the protection and management of groundwater, the treatment of municipal waste water, control of effluent and pollution by nitrates.
Each management plan will consist of a programme of measures to be fully operational by 31 December 2007 at the latest.
The objective of 'good status' must be achieved by the year 2010.
In response to this proposal, I tabled 17 amendments on behalf of the Europe of Nations Group, most of which were adopted either on their own or as part of a compromise amendment.
We voted against compromise Amendment No 201 on the underground storage of natural gas and LPG.
The Commission proposal introduces a derogation for existing stores, but would ban any plan to develop further storage of natural gas in aquifers, whilst the French experience of storing gas underground (since 1957) and LPG in abandoned mine workings (since 1965) indicates that all requisite measures for protecting the environment are in place.
This directive recognises the importance of the advances in certain areas and therefore concentrates on the quality of water, leaving aside the quantitative aspects of the problem.
We must therefore restrict the temptation in wealthier, more developed and more powerful regions to transfer water from other areas, as is the case with the River Ebro.
Through Amendments Nos 16, 18 and 75 the White report puts an end to such practices by limiting this water policy.
The rapporteur made this addition without respecting the elementary rules of transparency, and without even consulting the authors of the amendments which his compromise proposal was designed to replace.
A good environment in rivers and streams is an important element in the overall quality of the environment in the European Union.
Florenz report (A4-0051/99) This explanation of vote is mainly concerned with those sections of the report dealing with PVC.
Adopting Amendment No 25 fails in our opinion to do justice to the important area of producer liability.
We therefore voted against this amendment.
This is why we voted against Amendments Nos 8, 19, 21 and 56.
The treatment costs can then be passed on in the price of new vehicles.
On the subject of treatment, we wholeheartedly supported Amendment No 30, and the same applies to Amendment No 34 on the percentages for reuse and recovery.
In the European Union, as we approach the year 2000, close on 10 million vehicles are scrapped every year.
To quote just one of the many eloquent figures, the non-recyclable waste which remains after crushing and shredding makes up 10 % of the total volume of hazardous waste.
I think this idea will also enable many pollutants to be eliminated at the production stage, since the producer himself will have to make provision for recycling his products in the simplest and safest way possible.
This proposal is very important too for producers in the industry concerned.
The intention of my Amendment No 54 was to make it compulsory for vehicles type-approved after the date of the directive's entry into force to be taken back free of charge.
With the same ideas in mind, I supported the proposal by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which seeks to set differentiated objectives according to whether the vehicle is an old one or one which meets the standards of the present directive.
I also feel strongly about the amendments seeking to ban the use of PVC.
I naturally welcome any proposal which aims to improve waste management in the European Union.
Motorcyclists, if anything, have been more environmentally friendly than those of us who travel on four wheels.
End-of-life vehicles are a major environmental problem in the European Union.
Moreover, the demand for a horizontal directive providing for a total ban on PVC in the EU before 2000 is unrealistic, and therefore cannot be given Conservative support in the European Parliament.
Only a racist could give credence to such nonsense.
Only someone who believes the world is composed of sharply-defined 'races' arranged in a neat hierarchy with them at the top of the food chain could imagine such a horror.
Mr Antony's views have only reinforced this decision.
Kosovo Our group did not co-sign the draft 'joint' resolution on Kosovo.
The Rambouillet talks confirm the major role played in the 'contact group' by the two European countries most heavily and specifically engaged in the search for a peaceful solution: France and the United Kingdom, the two European members of the UN Security Council.
We unreservedly agree that it is vital to extend cultural and trade relations between the overseas countries and territories, the ACP countries and the ultraperipheral regions of the European Union, such as the Azores, the Canary Islands and Madeira.
We for our part wish to encourage the European Commission to show the utmost firmness - which for once it seems intent on doing, albeit very late in the day - and consequently the Europe of Nations Group chose not to sign the compromise of the PPE and PSE Groups, the content of which seemed to us insufficiently robust, but proposed a more forceful compromise text instead, together with four other political groups.
We wished in particular to reaffirm in strong terms our support for our ACP partners, to whom we are linked by an international agreement.
We wished also to indicate Parliament's fundamental disapproval of unilateral measures and deplore in no uncertain terms the USA's declared intention to apply Section 301 and 'super 301', the spectre of which we were told had been banished for ever thanks to the Marrakesh agreements.
The part-session will begin at 5 p.m.
The Conference of Presidents has decided to include in the agenda of Monday 22 March a Commission statement followed by a debate on the action to be taken on the report of the Committee of Independent Experts.
The other items on the agenda will be decided by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 4 March.
Committee meetings already scheduled for 22 and 23 March will be postponed until 24 and 25 March.
Since making that point before, I have received faulty copies from other Members, and I now have this pile of 63 faulty copies of the Kazakhstan resolution, each comprising only straight lines.
I am sure you are aware that visits are arranged for people from many parts of the world in the light of the timing of the mini-session.
Mr President, just to give an explanation to Mr McGowan.
Of course, normally we would hold the mini-session on 24 and 25 March, and the committee meetings would take place on 22 and 23 March.
So this is reversed: the mini-session will be on 22 and 23 March and the committee meetings on 24 and 25 March.
The main reason is that the railways are taking a very long time to develop into modern service enterprises, if they are developing in that direction at all.
The new proposal for a directive starts off in the right direction, broadening the definition of combined transport to pave the way for intermodal transport.
The maximum weight of 44 tonnes and the exemptions from driving bans, however, remain bones of contention.
I share some of my colleagues' fears, however - firstly that the abuses which are already occurring today will become more widespread, and secondly that the increase in exemptions from driving bans and derogations from weight limits could open the political floodgates for the extension of these privileges to road hauliers in general.
I welcome Parliament's support for this approach.
However, I regret that the report before the House rejects two of the three main measures proposed by the Commission to promote combined transport and substantially amends the other.
The suggestions set out in the report would not achieve what both of our institutions and the majority of Member States want and that is the further development of combined transport as an efficient and viable alternative to current dependence on road transport.
Such exemptions would improve the competitiveness of combined transport, by comparison with road transport, and would ensure greater reliability and regularity of combined transport services without jeopardising social and environmental standards.
At present, there are about 47 lorry bans in existence in the Community, with many detailed exceptions to them for combined transport services.
That needs serious improvement because combined transport obviously involves several links and if one is not allowed, for example on Sunday night, the whole chain is jeopardised.
Secondly, we believe that transport operators should have the option of using a maximum authorised vehicle weight of 44 tonnes for road transport when it is specifically used as part of a combined transport operation involving the movement by different transport units in the whole Community.
It may lower costs by 10 % and is, of course, only applicable over the shorter road legs of the combined transport journey.
It is an efficient way of making combined transport more attractive.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The result was that only two of the fifteen Member States were prepared to agree to Parliament's request.
It is important to note that up to now this has never actually happened, even in very difficult situations such as with Nigeria a few years ago.
The situation today is as follows.
The decision in the Council is no longer required to be unanimous but is to be by a qualified majority, and the Commission undertakes to inform Parliament in good time of any major change in the implementation of the suspension procedure.
The key to the report is the sentence that the Commission, wherever possible, will inform Parliament in advance of any suspension or indeed resumption of cooperation.
I believe that is a fair compromise between the Commission and Parliament and therefore support the proposal that Parliament give its assent to the draft Council decision.
As the Commission will know, the proposals for any new ACP-EU agreement could be based on regional cooperation and integration, with funding being distributed via the regional organisations rather than through individual nations and national indicative programmes.
I wonder how Article 366a can operate in such circumstances, as the Commission will have lost the ability to sanction an individual nation within a region.
Madam President, the Liberal Group has always called for transparency in our human rights policy.
I would like to reiterate what we stressed when the interim report was discussed here last June, namely, that we intend to keep Parliament fully informed of any initiative which we might take or any proposal which we might submit to the Council with regard to the implementation of Article 366a of the Fourth Lomé Convention which sadly, as has been said, is not something that can be regarded as a purely theoretical possibility.
I would add that in the only case so far in which Article 366a was invoked, against Togo, the Commission immediately informed Parliament of its intentions, as the rapporteur has acknowledged in her report, for which I thank her.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate on the granting of EUR 20 million in macro-financial assistance to Albania, I think it is extremely important to look at the political and economic context in which the assistance is being provided.
Let me pick out a few points.
The economic and social conditions are such that, in my view, Albania can rightly be described as a third world country on the Union's doorstep.
This is why it is vital that we should flesh out the ECOFIN Council decision of last April as quickly as possible.
Madam President, we know that Albania is still facing many intractable problems, especially problems in connection with internal security and public order which are affecting all other areas.
Nevertheless, in the midst of all these problems, relatively speaking I am amazed at the success this small country has had in implementing the six-month contingency programme from October 1997 to March 1998, which allowed it to tackle the social crisis and the civil war in the spring of 1997.
However, as was clear from the serious regression which took place in September last year, the problems of Albania centre more around the lack of communication and dialogue among the country's political powers and their inability to reach agreement on a minimum joint programme to extricate the country once and for all from the crisis it is in, rather than on the genuinely deep economic recession.
The European Union and international organisations must give generously all the help they possibly can to enable this country to find positive solutions to its problems.
Albania is part of Europe, it has contributed to the history of Europe and, from this standpoint, it is a potential applicant country for the European Union.
The Albanian Government must intensify its own efforts to solve its problems, and it must push forward policies and economic reforms to ensure that democratic institutions run smoothly and that the rule of law operates correctly.
What we must do is to make sure that the control which is now required can also be extended to cover macrofinancial aid to a certain degree.
But I nevertheless consider it important that we strike a good balance between trust and verification, a balance that will also encourage the Albanians, the Albanian Government, to progress along the right path.
Our group supports them in their entirety.
This would be a disastrous development for a country that does not need one loan after another but productive investment, including from the European Union, so that it can generate its own, independent economic development.
Obviously the European Union has made a good many mistakes over Albania, and this EUR 20 million loan will not fundamentally change the situation.
I therefore call on the Vice-President of the Commission in particular and the Commission in general to urge the Member States not to regularise the situation after the event, as has been done now in Italy, where 250 000 people have been legalised as immigrants - because in the meantime the emigration mafia have netted their profits.
We should act ahead of the event and set quotas in all countries of the European Union.
I believe that when we speak of Albania, we must not forget that it is a country which has had to make an unimaginably huge leap forward within a few years and still has an enormous amount of ground to make up.
I believe our aid can only be a drop in the ocean, but it may serve a useful purpose inside the country, helping to overcome the barriers that exist there.
Only if these mechanisms exist, particularly in relation to the Albanian democratisation process, will the aid from the European Union be able to achieve anything.
Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the excellence of her report and also thank her for the support given by Parliament to the Commission proposal.
The purpose of the macro-financial assistance of a maximum of EUR 20m for Albania is to shore up the country's official exchange reserves.
This operation forms part of the global strategy pursued by the international community, and in particular by the European Union, since the crisis began at the end of 1996.
Of course, the Commission will pay special attention to efforts to combat corruption by improving customs procedures and the management of public expenditure.
I turn to some of the amendments: the Commission supports and welcomes Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 6, some of which, in particular No 3, will enable us to adopt a stronger negotiating position with the Albanians in sectors which we think are very important.
For example, the mandate of the PHARE Committee does not provide for it to be consulted in advance on a macro-financial operation and on the financial conditions attached to the associated borrowing and lending operations.
But the Commission will ensure that the operation is fully consistent with and complements the objectives of the PHARE programme in Albania.
Furthermore, we are, of course, prepared to reply to any questions Parliament might put to us, both during the operation and after it has been completed.
It is essential to protect the objectives of an operation designed to underpin stability and economic reform.
As we have invariably done in the past, the Commission will, of course, examine during the implementation phase whether the political context is compatible with disbursement in accordance with the principles of sound management.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
