Thank you, Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel.
I hope that will be on 10 July and that you will have the answer before the next Strasbourg part-session.
Welcome A delegation of members from the group of the Flemish Christian-Democrat Party (CVP) in the Belgian Chamber of Representatives have taken their seats in the official gallery.
There was also another reason why the Maastricht Treaty needed to be adapted.
In the new Treaty, however, things are set to change, in that Parliament is given formal consultation rights and the right to adequate information.
The Treaty now makes a number of provisions for progress in the field of foreign and security policy.
The agreement forms an excellent basis for fruitful cooperation between Council and Parliament.
The Member States are to continue to bear the main responsibility for employment policy, but they could learn much more from each other and also work better with one another.
Altogether, the new employment chapter in the Treaty, the resolution on employment and growth, and the establishment of a genuine social policy at European level ought to form a useful complement to EMU.
Following discussions in the Single Market Council and ECOFIN, the Commission has drawn up an action plan with four strategic objectives: more effective rules, dealing with market distortions, abolishing sectoral barriers and ensuring that the single market offers more advantages for the man in the street.
The presidency made great efforts to promote the Barcelona process, since it firmly believes that EuroMediterranean stability concerns everyone in the Union.
The Union has an important part to play in supporting the peace process in the Middle East.
At the informal General Affairs Council in Apeldoorn in March, particular attention was given to the development of our long-term relations with Turkey.
There have been further developments in relations between the Union and Cyprus in the form of agreements reached as part of a structured dialogue.
The Commission is to report regularly on whether the countries in question are complying with these conditions.
Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
Since Maastricht, my priority has been to bring the European Union closer to the citizen.
Those conclusions also show that we have embarked on a new stage in Community history.
By laying down the final technical preparations, the European Council has given the final green light to the launch of the single currency on 1 January 1999, while improving the co-ordination of economic policies for the benefit of employment.
That is the battle this Commission has been fighting for more than two years, with the support of Parliament.
The Commission will ensure that the four objectives of the action plan are put into effect efficiently, and on time.
All our institutions must take action, each in its own field.
Finally, I welcome the launch of some 90 regional pacts for employment, each of which will act as a laboratory for employment throughout the entire Union.
This is the third time I have been involved in a revision of the Treaty of Rome.
So the idea of working for 18 hours at a stretch is not, in itself, anything out of the ordinary.
The fears I expressed in this House on 11 June, Mr President, have to some extent proved well founded.
And what can I say about the proliferation of protocols and declarations: 14 protocols and 46 declarations?
The new Treaty, as the Commission and the European Parliament both wanted, communitizes much of the third pillar and incorporates the Schengen Accords.
On the subject of employment, we have a new chapter and a legal basis for measures to stimulate it.
The new text also includes positive points on the principle of equal treatment for men and women and a legal basis for helping victims of social exclusion.
The European Parliament will be involved in these decisions, which will be of particular concern to the citizen through the application of the codecision procedure.
The strengthening of the provisions relating to health and consumer protection was not challenged at Amsterdam.
The Member States, incidentally, would be well advised to put their own houses in order, because we are being flooded with requests for proposals or studies in the widest variety of fields.
In this area, the text largely fulfils the Commission's hopes.
The instruments have been clarified, and qualified majority voting has been introduced on a broad front.
In defence matters, on the other hand, I am sorry to say there has been no real breakthrough.
I successfully urged the addition of an extra clause to the existing Article 113 allowing the Council, in response to a proposal by the Commission and after consultation with the European Parliament, to extend the provisions of that article to intellectual property and to services.
Furthermore, the President designate will in future be formally approved by the European Parliament.
A word about agreements on closer co-operation.
They should enable those Member States which so desire to move forward, and become a very valuable instrument in an enlarged Europe.
The declaration on the internal organization of our institution is also welcome.
Furthermore, a new Intergovernmental Conference will have to undertake a complete review of the composition and functioning of the institutions - and I mean the institutions, not just the Commission - one year before Union membership exceeds twenty.
As far as the institutional package is concerned, we shall of course have to show stronger political will when the time comes.
In a few weeks' time the Commission will present its opinion on the candidate States.
It will present its proposals for Agenda 2000: the future of our policies, including the Common Agricultural Policy and the Structural Funds, enlargement, the future financial framework.
Let us begin by bringing the Amsterdam Treaty to life and taking full advantage of all its potential. (Applause) Thank you very much, Mr Santer.
My group supports the inclusion of the new title on employment and the social protocol into the Treaty as well as the reference to fundamental social rights.
Such a move would also give a clear signal that the summit on employment to be held in October under the Luxembourg presidency had real political muscle behind it and was intended to come forward with concrete proposals, rather than the usual ritual blah blah.
The adoption of the broad economic guidelines offers the first opportunity and the employment summit offers the second.
The acknowledgement of respect for human rights; the new no-discrimination clause, although it is such a pity that in the European Year against Racism and Xenophobia the Council could not adopt this competence with qualified majority voting; the clear step forward on equal opportunities, the environment, public health and consumer protection; the developments on transparency and openness and the reduction in the number of decision-making procedures and the stream-lining and extension of co-decision for the European Parliament.
Perhaps the Prime Minister could draw the attention of Member States to the existent powers on culture, Article 128 of the present Maastricht Treaty and the existing powers on research, Article 130 of the Maastricht Treaty, both of which grant co-decision with the European Parliament while acting unanimously in the Council.
My group are also deeply disappointed with progress on the second and third pillars of the Treaty.
By retaining unanimity in the Council and only consulting the European Parliament, real democracy in these areas is thwarted.
Therefore my group believes that it is vital that before enlargement the European Council must come together again to address the question of majority voting in the Council as well as the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, first of all I should like to congratulate Mr Kok and his colleagues most warmly on the excellent work they have done.
However, the European Parliament must also face up to its responsibilities.
The inclusion of the Social Protocol and the chapter on employment in the Treaty, and especially the incorporation of Schengen into Community legislation, represent quite significant steps forward which must be welcomed as such.
We also welcome the simplification of the legislative procedure implemented by the European Parliament, the inclusion in the Treaty of a legal basis paving the way to progress with regard to the status of European Members of Parliament and a uniform electoral procedure.
From the start, Europe has faced a choice between being a mere free trade area, with or without a single currency, and a genuine union of independent States, determined to make their voice heard in world affairs instead of muttering almost inaudibly as they did in Denver.
The Union can only complete this historic task if it is strong enough to bear its weight.
The more Member States there are, the greater will be the disparity of interests within the Union.
We cannot hope to build a strong Europe with weak institutions.
However, they will only be completed successfully if the euro becomes a stable currency in 1999 and if the Union's decision-making is also made more efficient.
We do not want to over-dramatize, but that is how we felt.
We felt consternation, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because the European Council results represent a failure of the plan to reform the European institutions with a view to enlargement and in our opinion it was a mistake to take such a tough line in ratifying the stability pact.
The 'communitization' of the justice and domestic pillar will be very limited and there will be no real redressing of the balance within the European institutions.
As regards the second objective - providing the Union with the means suitable for a more effective foreign policy, we think there was too little political willpower on common foreign and security policy and we would mention trade policy, where Article 113 dealing with trade policy became totally bogged down.
Nor can the cancellation of the third reading in the co-decision procedure be regarded as any great result either.
Neither the text of the Treaty nor the resolution on growth and employment offers any kind of progress here in terms of concrete guarantees.
Institutional reform was required for this, the main elements being the qualified majority in the Council, the right of codecision for Parliament and a wider role for the Court of Justice.
Mr President, much had been hoped for from the European Council in Amsterdam.
But even in those areas the progress made has been incomplete, because virtually no additional credit has been allocated to these activities.
I hope it will not come to that, but we are on the alert.
Even the adoption of a future official status of European Member of Parliament will require a unanimous Council.
Nor has the European Council dealt with the problem of the weighting of votes, or with the problem of the number of Commissioners.
On all these points, and others too, the texts we adopted two years ago were much more ambitious than the one destined to become the Amsterdam Treaty.
Mr President, the Dutch presidency has managed under very difficult circumstances to conclude the IGC negotiations at the Amsterdam summit, for which it is to be congratulated.
I see this as an acknowledgement of the importance of the national governments for the successful operation of the Union, and of keeping decision-making as close as possible to the general public.
It would seem logical to strengthen the European institutions to prevent the Union from losing effectiveness as a result of enlargement.
That is why we need to have fundamental talks on the current form and substance of the Union and on the role of the European Parliament.
Even with the present Union of 15 Member States, there are serious failings when it comes to cooperation and compliance with European legislation, so how will things be with an enlarged Union and an even wider diversity of cultures, legal systems, political traditions and standards of living?
I therefore hope that fundamental talks will take place on the future structure of Europe before the Union is enlarged any further.
But above all, the Treaty still does not make the European Union capable of enlargement.
The Treaty does not measure up to all that needs to be done in the Union.
But measured against the existing Maastricht Treaty, the new Treaty represents notable progress.
If anyone had prophesied two years ago that it would prove possible to replace the entire cooperation procedure with the co-decision procedure he would have been regarded as a nutcase!
Our two representatives, Elmar Brok and Elisabeth Guigou, were successful, after spending a year involved in drafting the Treaty under difficult conditions.
For instance, if you want SFOR in Yugoslavia to have a new task and its mandate extended, you can decide on that, regardless of the provisions of the new foreign and security policy.
If I have calculated correctly from Elmar Brok's list, the European Parliament will soon have the final say on around 80 % of all European legislation, and I agree with our group chairman when he says that Parliament has certainly emerged the winner in this Treaty.
It cannot be good for more than ECU 50 billion to be spent on agriculture in particular without any parliamentary control.
It now presents a major threat to enlargement and the role of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Amsterdam Treaty is the result of a fifteen month-long conference, during which proposals from all the institutional and other players engaged in the revision of the treaty were evaluated, and the negotiations, which were not always easy, produced the compromise of this draft treaty, agreed and initialled the Member States.
There were great expectations of this reform, and there has been great progress, but there is also great disappointment.
So, for the sake of the European Union, its Member States present and future and their peoples, we trust that this period of polishing and desirable reflection, may lead to the approval of a treaty more adequate to the 21st Century, until a future and more profitable intergovernmental conference can be held.
Madam President, the link between a bold reform of the institutions and the opening of accession negotiations has never been challenged either by the Member States or by the European Parliament, for the very good reason that that link was obvious.
The European Commission, for its part, is responsible for defending the overriding interest of the Union.
We hope the Commission will be able to show its worth in its mid-July report.
Admittedly, the acceptance of the pact seems to me to be a serious act, but the fact remains that the debate on employment has begun.
The resolution on employment and growth adopted at Amsterdam opens up various avenues of exploration which might lead to the creation of jobs, but it still bears the heavy imprint of the European Council in Essen, with its emphasis on competitiveness, flexibility and reducing the cost of labour.
The extraordinary European council on employment, this autumn, will provide an opportunity for the peoples of Europe to obtain a hearing for their demands, expressed by the Europe-wide social movement.
We are going to set to work to play our full part in the pursuit and intensification of the mobilization of the citizens' social movement, to achieve a re-orientation of European unity and to make social progress and employment the driving forces of a new economic development in Europe.
Of course, some progress has been made in the Amsterdam Treaty, but what is really significant - and I shall not list every point, since everyone else has already done that - is the vexed question of the environment guarantee.
We see that the common European denominator is even smaller than we thought in Maastricht.
I believe account should have been taken of the fact that the process of integration is bound to be a gradual one, that common action cannot be imposed by decree but can in fact only be achieved step by step on the basis of a common European will.
This Treaty has brought a social balance.
In the field of foreign and security policy, we have managed thanks in particular to Parliament's activities to ensure that the Commission is involved in planning and analysis and in other areas too and that it is no longer just the governments and the Council alone that decide.
But we also note that this Treaty has one crucial weakness.
I could imagine, for instance, that the decision, which is to be taken in the Council, to include justice and home affairs in the majority and codecision procedure in five years' time could be modified and that the timeframe could be reduced, for instance to a date before the first round of enlargement.
The Commission as a whole has to be approved by the European Parliament.
Treaties on enlargement, association agreements and many other agreements with third countries require the assent of the European Parliament.
We will be holding elections in 1999, when we should honestly tell the citizens that this European Parliament is a factor of European policy and that few matters in Europe are still decided against the will of the European Parliament!
Measured against what we hoped it would achieve, Amsterdam was not a success, but the Heads of Government who directly reflect the voters' wishes in the 15 Member States chose to decide otherwise.
Strasbourg, more than Brussels with all its bureaucracy, is still the symbol of peace in Europe.
It will therefore be necessary for you to try a new Intergovernmental Conference or to postpone enlargement.
No-one thought two or three weeks ago that it would be possible to conclude the draft Treaty in Amsterdam.
I would point out that International Law was invented 500 years ago by another Dutchman - not the President-in-Office of the Council - but Hugo Grocio.
So I do not know whether we now need to return to this International Law discovered 500 years ago by that illustrious Dutchman.
That means, in specific terms in this Community, that there is no sense in talking about political asylum when the States are already governed by Community Law rather than International Law.
The articles on the right of political asylum might even presuppose a retroactive element, since I do not think it is possible for a Member State of the European Union to be able to grant asylum to a person who has committed a crime in another country and I do not see any sense in invoking political asylum when we are in a Community governed by democratic States.
If one State is failing to fulfil the conditions for democracy then it cannot be a Member of the Community.
If we want to be sure of having a free European judicial area, in accordance with constitutional principles, asylum must now be regarded as the major omission from the Treaty of Amsterdam, since it was not possible to set up a European judicial area proffering simultaneously guarantees of freedom and security.
Thank you, Mr Medina Ortega.
Nevertheless, directly linked to the results of this summit, one event did give us great cause for concern, since in some way it contradicts the bases of this united egalitarian Europe to which I already referred.
During the conference, the United Kingdom tried to have the right of Community countries to register ships in any Member State -dubbed by them quota-hopping - limited in the final text.
Faced with the possibility that the IGC might be incapable of producing any text, President Santer, on his own initiative and in an amazing unprecedented decision, sent a personal letter to the British Prime Minister in which he unilaterally put at his disposition the services of DG XVI to assist one country - Great Britain - to get their own way over the other Member States even going so far as to make suggestions in that letter which clearly contradicted even three judgments of the European Court of Justice.
Madam President, who would claim today that the Intergovernmental Conference has fulfilled its mandate?
The positive results of two years of negotiations are confined to a few points.
Outside the mandate of the Intergovernmental Conference, and a product of the electoral victory of the socialists in France, Amsterdam finally brings us the good news of the resolution on growth and employment, an essential counterpart to the resolution on the stability pact, though that is not to say that a genuine economic government has been set up.
The Amsterdam Treaty is not a satisfactory conclusion to the Intergovernmental Conference.
On the social side we have achieved something, but on the political side we have hardly started.
Right from the very moment when Sweden joined the Union two years ago we have been fighting to make unemployment a matter of common concern in the Union.
There were many who thought that we would not succeed but obviously the 18 million unemployed in Europe are a reality which has forced even the most unwilling governments to agree to this in the Treaty.
We have a great responsibility to ensure that this happens, at the additional summit meeting on unemployment, for example.
These countries have a right to claim EU membership, and the civilian cooperation between countries which were previously on a war footing with one another or were divided by a concrete wall is the EU's contribution to peace and stability in Europe.
That goes for national governments, the Commission, national parliaments and the European Parliament.
Employment and all the related social aspects are to be given much more prominence in Europe in future years.
There came a point during the last night at Amsterdam when it became clear that Member States had certain mutually exclusive ideas on this issue.
Mr President, following the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council, I shall be relatively brief and not go back over all the points that have been raised in your speeches, which in any case generally reflect the concerns we expressed ourselves in our introduction.
I am completely certain that if it had not proved possible to reach agreement both on the single currency and on the pact for stability, growth and employment, it would also not have been possible to reach agreement on the Intergovernmental Conference.
Indeed, it was one of the notable successes of that presidency that it achieved agreement on the preparations for the single currency because, as we know very well today, the euro is up and running along the right lines; its other achievements included the successful completion of Articles 102a and 103 of the Treaty by formulating the economic guidelines and incorporating the employment objective; again, it also succeeded in completing the negotiations at the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is the most basic courtesy for a President of the Commission to reply to a Prime Minister regarding a problem with the application of Community law, which in fact is what the quota-hopping issue was about.
Mr President, we have heard it said on numerous occasions during this debate that the draft Amsterdam Treaty fails to prepare the Union's institutions for enlargement.
And that poses the problem of ratification.
The areas which we oppose in the new Treaty include the fact that more political areas are to be centralised at EU level.
We cannot support the text of point 10 in the joint resolution proposal which expresses disappointment over the fact that there has been no integration of the WEU and the EU.
Nor can we support points 8 and 12.
We do not think that these two political actions will help to increase employment, growth or peace in Europe.
It is our fundamental view that the EU should be a co-operation between independent States.
And government without the people is government without democracy.
We do not want a common foreign policy with majority decisions, a common foreign ministry and a common foreign minister.
We agree that, when it comes to employment, the fight against unemployment and the idea of a social Europe, there has been real progress, thanks to the political changes in the United Kingdom and especially in France, with clear perspectives and a specific timetable.
It confirms much of the Commission and it confronts the European Parliament with its responsibilities.
The Luxembourg employment summit lies ahead.
The national governments, the Commission and Parliament no longer have any 'right to fail' , nor any right to be vague in their proposals or unclear about their commitments.
Europe's citizens expect specific measures and a specific timetable...
On the institutional front, the balance sheet is much more negative.
Parliament's powers have been strengthened by the broadening of the codecision procedure, but the inability of the summit to decide on the necessary action simply to make the Council and Commission 'manageable' in the event of enlargement is a serious failure.
The European Union, then, must very quickly go into greater detail with its proposals to favour growth and social change and to counter unemployment, while at the same time reopening the debate on the European institutions, which must be very swiftly adapted and reformed if a crisis is to be avoided.
Most importantly EUROPOL, the coordinating police agency, will be given an operational role and the 15 Member States have promised to strengthen the fight against drug trafficking and related crime.
Let me dwell for a moment on this fundamental point.
And that brain is policy, and, therefore, the institutional structure that allows it.
It means taking decisions by a majority vote, not unanimously.
If we can agree on this diagnosis, we need to seek the means to cure the patient, and especially to prevent his disease becoming chronic.
The medication is already known: the reform of the institutions and, primarily, the extension of majority voting.
And, before any enlargement takes place, let us demand a further review of the Treaties, which in essence means a review of the European constitution.
An amendment tabled by members of various groups, in paragraph 1 of the compromise motion, asserts it forcibly.
Paragraph 10 on the integration of the WEU into the EU cannot be supported because of a Danish reservation.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Seppänen, Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), Bonde (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) Perhaps the Amsterdam Treaty does not go as far as many would have liked or as many feared.
The European Parliament will gain co-decision rights in approximately 75 % of real EU legislation and influence over the financing of foreign policy.
For that reason I have voted against that resolution.
The European Parliament was given a mere consultative role in most justice developments but now has no say whatsoever on Europol, the federal police force.
The goal of boosting employment stated in the Treaty is incompatible with efforts to achieve economic and monetary union (EMU).
Although a proposed merger between the EU and the nuclear-armed Western European Union (WEU) was postponed, the Treaty still provides for 'the progressive framing of a common defence policy [which] will be supported, as Member States consider appropriate, by cooperation between them in the field of armaments' .
Following the accusations against European public opinion - with great headlines in the media, citing nationalist prejudices and visions in the building of Europe, it is a good thing for the European Parliament to be the forum for the expression of the views of the institutions - the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
Over and above any detailed analysis, the message which should get through to public opinion is that the Treaty of Amsterdam is a new, positive step towards the political building of Europe.
The extension of voting by qualified majority and of policies governed by the co-decision process is another key political barometer.
The famous blocking minority, as its name indicates, serves only to delay the building of Europe.
Fontaine report (A4-0204/97) We consider the report presented by the rapporteur contains a significantly better proposed Directive than the proposal from the Commission.
It is, in fact, unacceptable for five reasons.
This report is unacceptable, first, because - as I said earlier - it is presented during a supplementary part-session in Brussels whereas the budgetary session is held, and will continue to be held, in Strasbourg.
This report is unacceptable in that it envisages eleven five-day part-sessions in Strasbourg and seven additional part-sessions in Brussels, which is contrary to the Treaties, whether we refer to the Edinburgh compromise or to what will shortly become Community law in the wake of the Amsterdam European Council meeting.
The report is also unacceptable in what it has to say about the reimbursements, charges and expenses of Members of the European Parliament.
The report is also unacceptable with regard to Parliament's buildings.
We must make some comment on this budget even if we are voting for the report. 1.The most ridiculous thing from a cost point of view is that Parliament is located in three different working areas.
Almost BFR 2 billion in travel and subsistence allowances for 626 Members really is a very considerable sum indeed.
We should like to see this principle of 'equality' set in stone, as the Amsterdam summit set it in the Treaty.
We must make some comment on this budget even if we are voting for the report. 1.The most ridiculous thing from a cost point of view is the fact that Parliament is located in three different places.
STOA assists these committees in areas where science and technology play a dominant role.
It is adopted by the STOA panel and by the Bureau of Parliament.
It is therefore clear that the merging of the two budget items 260 and 261 is incompatible with the constant efforts of STOA to guarantee management based on greater budgetary transparency: the appropriations included in item 261 are specifically intended to finance STOA, whose mandate was confirmed by the Bureau at its meeting of 17 February 1997.
The Committee on Budgetary Control also receives a quarterly report on the implementation of the budget.
Thus, the adoption of paragraph 37, and in particular the one-third reduction in the pre-allocated amounts, would result in the circumventing of the political responsibility exercisedby the Bureau of Parliament and the STOA panel, in favour of a purely administrative form of management involving at least three authorizing officers.
With the current Tomlinson package, we are still more than ECU 4 million above the group chairmen's recommendation of 1988 that Parliament's budget should not exceed 20 % of total administrative expenditure.
Hendrick report (A4-0163/97) . (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council Decision adopting a multiannual Community programme to stimulate the establishment of the information society in Europe.
Marginalization and exclusion are very real risks in the context of the development of new information and communications technologies.
The Danish Social Democrats want to avoid new class divisions in society due to the development of the information society and therefore take a very positive view of initiatives in which the legislator plays an active role in influencing developments.
But that is not enough - and even 'information' cannot just be absorbed passively!
The question cannot simply be: ' how do we adjust to the new situation' , but 'what kind of information society' do we want, what form should we give it?
If the Commission and the Council continue to fail to tackle this task, the political forces in this Union will simply have to begin here and now to get a social debate under way.
Ahlqvist report (A4-0200/97) I have voted for this report today as I share the rapporteur's welcome for the Commission Communication on Learning in the Information Society.
Chesa report (A4-0032/97) We have voted in favour of the report by Mr Raymond Chesa on co-operation with Kirgizistan.
The unfortunate thing about this business is that the report's argument is based, in particular, on a provision contained in the agreements of the Uruguay Round, approved by this House in 1994.
Article 2 of the agreement on health and plant health measures provides for the possibility of restrictions on international trade in order to protect human health only if those restrictions are based on scientific proof.
Unfortunately, however, Article 2 of the agreement to which I have referred makes no mention of the principle of caution.
Health measures must of course be based on scientific principles, but complete scientific certainty and unanimity are rare.
For all the above reasons we shall vote in favour of the political resolution approved today by Parliament.
I think Mr Novo's report will provide a sound basis for discussion in the run-up to the official Commission proposal on the forthcoming reform of the Structural Funds.
The Structural Funds, as you all know, are one of the essential elements of the European Union's economic and social cohesion policy.
The first is the underimplementation of the Structural Funds.
The problem is a substantial one, even though today's figures are less alarming than they were in 1995, the first year of the programming period.
It seems necessary for the implementation procedures to be simplified, at both Commission and Member State level.
The assent procedure remains in place.
I regret that very much, and I hope that between now and the signing of the Treaty in October 1997 the European Parliament will be able to indicate its disagreement on this point.
I hope this report will act as a spur to the Commission and the Council to act quickly on this problem.
