Mr President, I would just like to ask if the thefts and break-ins in our offices here in the European Parliament could also be recorded in the Minutes?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Charter was adopted at the Strasbourg Summit of December 1989 and was seen at the time by many as a great step forwards.
We have now had two Treaty amendments, Maastricht and Amsterdam.
Thank you, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
On one hand, in our common tradition trade union rights have often been fought through tough negotiations and fierce conflicts.
Almost 150 years ago, appropriately here in Brussels, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels drew up their manifesto in which they called for the democratic parties in all countries to join together and to reach agreement.
The 1848 revolution used the slogan of unification for the free peoples of Europe.
Thank you very much, Mr Schäfer.
The interesting thing too is that there were one or two little gaps in the Maastricht Social Protocol which led my country to a lot of misrepresentation about what was actually involved in the Social Protocol.
I believe it is important that the rights of free association collective bargaining are regarded as a basic human right and that any attempt in Europe or anywhere else to violate these rights are a violation of fundamental human rights.
I believe the model that the GMB and IG BCE have developed will be a good model for the future.
Although the subject of this report is transnational trade union rights in the European Union, I maintain that certain lines of argument within it can, by analogy, be applied to the other side of the social dialogue.
Out of respect for the rapporteur I did not want to alter the specific nature of the report and have refrained from tabling any amendments.
The report refers to ILO Conventions Nos 87 and 98 concerning freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining.
The report also rightly emphasises that the social dialogue is an outstanding aid in continuing to bring together the economic and social aims of the European Union.
This House has repeatedly called on the Commission to do something about this, but unfortunately in vain.
If this report also leads to that then the SMEs, Madam Rapporteur, will be eternally grateful.
Mr President, Madam Rapporteur, our party is naturally also of the opinion that fundamental freedoms to organize and to negotiate are very important in order to promote the social dialogue at European level.
Also, I did not wish to table any amendments as I did not want to whip up the issue in this sense, but I hope that the European Commission will also establish this right when it works out its proposals.
It could be said that the parties to the labour market can already enter into European agreements in the social dialogue.
However, there is a problem in that little progress has been made in the social dialogue.
It may well be that collective action or some kind of European employment legislation should or could resolve any conflicts in industrial relations.
Mr President, I wish to express my deep concern regarding the state of the social and union rights of workers in the European Union.
Mr President, within the last two weeks the ILO has adopted a new convention on global labour standards which includes the right to join unions and bargain collectively.
The most recent and blatant example of this was the case of an airline company, Ryanair, where the management of that company refused to negotiate with the trade union SIPTU in relation to a group of young, very badly paid baggage handlers.
I call on Commissioner Flynn to begin work now on drafting a new directive to this effect.
The Amsterdam Treaty was defective in this regard.
Mr President, Commissioner, no-one can deny that in these days when capital is becoming transnational it is reasonable to give transnational trade union rights their proper effect.
It goes hand in hand with other initiatives and reports making up a package which is worrying to those who think trade unions have other purposes and tasks apart from merely participating in the social dialogue, the sole purpose of which is to protect economic interests in a market in which the workforce is no more than one kind of merchandise.
As you know, the right of association with the object of forming professional or trade union organizations, as guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, is recognized in Article 6 (2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam as a general principle of Community law.
In that context, it is important to emphasize that, for the first time, the Treaty of Amsterdam gives the Court of Justice jurisdiction over matters relating to human rights and fundamental liberties, including the right of association.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining are recognized in the Community Charter on Fundamental Social Rights for Workers and implicitly referred to in Article 136 of the Treaty of Amsterdam as guiding principles of Community social policy.
Nevertheless, I should like to make it absolutely clear that, since the right to associate and the right to strike are not within the scope of Article 137 of the Treaty, the Commission does not intend to draft any legislation on those matters.
In addition, a group of experts has been set up to examine the progress that has been achieved in that field by the Treaty of Amsterdam, identifying any omissions and recommending courses of action for the future.
It is an important operation because it serves to pool the various experiences and realities of the different Member States.
The possibility of recognizing, promoting, finding various ways for citizens to participate in the collective good - because that is what we are talking about - in relation to the tradition of the organizations of political parties and trade unions plays a major role in involving citizens in Europe's construction.
The first, on procedure: I still do not understand the headlong rush of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in this matter.
I fear that such precipitate action by our colleagues might also have prevented Parliament from giving a proper hearing to the voluntary associations and from studying their problems in depth.
The second observation, Mr President, concerns the fundamental issues at stake here.
In conclusion, I wish to stress that two topical issues, the promotion of national action programmes against unemployment and the reorganization of the Structural Funds for the regions are, taken together, I believe, an opportunity to link the issue we are debating with these major developments in the European Union.
Mr President, I believe that the whole question of voluntary organizations and the third system is one whose full significance we have only begun to appreciate in the last few years.
The European Union has a rather complicated history in this issue, as the rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has explained.
The rapporteur has taken this on board, and I can only praise her for her commitment in this area.
In point 14 of the conclusion, the rapporteur mentions that part of the funds for SMEs should be held back for third system SMEs.
Thirdly, notwithstanding the euphoria about the effects on employment of the third system, we must differentiate between two things.
For this reason, we in the PPE group are voting for this report despite some points of criticism.
Thirdly, and most importantly, we must make use of the expertise and commitment of voluntary organizations and foundations by including them in our legislative work and other Parliamentary work in a natural way.
That is also a good way to improve understanding of the EU and the work of the European Parliament.
From an EU perspective and in the context of the application of the principle of subsidiarity we cannot ignore the potential and desire of our citizens to participate in the work of nation-building.
Given the opportunity and a favourable community infrastructure, the citizens of rural Europe are actively participating in enterprise programmes, creating much-needed employment and contributing to the sustainability of rural communities.
We cannot, however, turn the clock back but through carefully constructed training and educational programmes involving organizations such as CEJA, the European umbrella body for farm organizations and, in my own country, Macra Na Feirme, our young farmers' organization, we can create the economic and social infrastructure necessary to encourage and help more young people to pursue farming as a credible career.
In addition to protecting social interests, this can create major opportunities for work, cultural growth, vocational training, as clearly recalled by the rapporteur whom we thank.
Let us therefore hope that the next Intergovernmental Conference finally promotes the role of organizations and foundations, recognizing non-profit organizations and non-governmental organizations as fundamental bodies for common social growth in Europe.
Both documents contain interesting remarks on the role of associations and foundations at national, regional and local levels, but a European dimension is also mentioned, inter alia with reference to the proposal for a Statute for a European association in 1992.
Mrs Ghilardotti accepted the PPE group's suggestion made in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, that any regulation on European associations in future must be clearly differentiated from the European public limited company.
The report by Mrs Ghilardotti on the role of organizations and foundations in Europe rightly recalls the need to develop the entire third sector, the so-called non-profit sector.
Since presenting its communication, the Commission, in collaboration with representatives of the organizations and foundations, has developed a plan of action to implement its conclusions, to exploit the potential of those organizations and foundations, and also to identify the difficulties to be overcome to enable them to play a more effective part in defending the interests of European citizens.
It is a fact that organizations and foundations which participate in all aspects of economic and social life often have considerable economic power and represent an important source of employment.
And in many cases they represent alternative forms of corporation related to traditional economic and social models.
And, although the matter was referred back to COREPER and the Austrian Presidency at the last Council of 4 June, it should be noted that negotiations within the Council have already reached an advanced stage and a good number of the European Parliament's concerns have been taken into consideration.
The Commission agrees that the socio-economic dynamic has not yet fully developed as regards the ongoing preservation and creation of jobs or the creation of appropriate services in response to new needs.
It is in fact essential that we should re-appraise the situation and find the right way of developing the social dialogue in all European institutions.
Mrs Ghilardotti and Mr Wolf place particular emphasis on the difficulties many NGOs have in collaborating with the Structural Funds.
It is a source of particular satisfaction to me that the new proposals on the Social Fund represent a significant step forward in improving and facilitating access to that fund for NGOs.
I would also like to inform the House that the report by DG V, referred to in points 2 and 3 of the resolution we are discussing, only relates to the various internal departments of that Directorate-General and not to the Commission's relations as a whole with NGOs.
Finally, when reading this resolution I could not help noticing point 19, ' Enlargement and external relations' , in which the ACP countries are not mentioned.
I would therefore like to remind the House that giving full value to the socio-economic sector is a mainstay of our development policy, and this is clearly expressed in the mandate for the negotiation of future relations between the European Union and the ACP countries which has just been approved by the Council.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
Working time directive The next item is the report (A4-0229/98) by Mr Chanterie, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the Commission White Paper on sectors and activities excluded from the working time directive (COM(97)0334 - C4-0434/97).
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, if there is one social issue in which the European Union can play a role and thus carries responsibility, it is the protection of the safety and health of workers at the workplace in accordance with Article 118a of the Treaty.
In 1993 the European Union issued a directive which lays down rules on daily and weekly rest periods, weekly working hours, annual leave, breaks, night work and shift work.
In addition, at the instigation of the Council of Ministers a range of sectors and activities were completely excluded from the scope of the directive.
In this White Paper the European Commission has looked at the working time situation in these excluded sectors and activities, which, taken together, concern around six million workers, of whom around five million are in the non-mobile part of these sectors.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for which I appear here as rapporteur wants the Commission first of all to try and bring all the excluded sectors and activities as far as possible within the scope of the directive.
I should also like in particular to go into the situation of doctors in training.
Who among us would want to work under such conditions and, especially, who would let himself be operated on by someone who is in such a state.
Doctors in training are in many cases exploited far beyond the bounds of acceptability and this puts human lives in danger.
The exclusion of doctors in training from such a working time directive can be considered to be downright criminal.
We have to recognize first of all that there was a reason for the exclusion of these sectors.
There are huge differences between a long-distance fleet where fishermen are employed for months on end by a company and a small boat that goes out based on a family or cooperative from Galicia or the Adriatic, or in the case of the latter, people who go out to fish at night because that is their tradition.
This is very difficult in some cases where there are no trade unions representing the workers because the workers are self-employed.
It is very difficult to tell a country to come up with an agreement between the unions and the employers when there are no such partners.
Mr President, five years after the adoption of the working time directive, it is extremely urgent that we look again at the problem of the excluded sectors.
Several trade union disputes have shown the growing rejection of inhuman working conditions, particularly in this sector.
The existing rules in the road transport sector permit a driving time of 56 hours per week, and even this is not properly respected.
To conclude, I would like to express one regret: namely, that the inclusion of mobile workers in the Directive, with - obviously - limited and negotiated derogations, as I proposed in my capacity as rapporteur, has been rejected.
The adoption of the Chanterie report can nevertheless provide some support in the context of the joint negotiations which are taking place in the various sectors that have been excluded.
It is clear that the salaried workers concerned must continue to make their requirements for sufficient rest and living time heard, in the face of liberal dogmas about free competition which deride the most basic rights.
If one looks at the statistics one finds that 20 % of all accidents on the roads involving heavy goods vehicles are, in fact, caused by drivers suffering from fatigue.
On the one hand I must congratulate the Commission for the fact that it has spent so much time sorting out these apparently very difficult sectors, but on the other hand we have been dogged by the fact that the two Directorates-General in question found it very difficult to agree with each other on some points and that has certainly not speeded things up.
I think that the White Paper is in general a good thing but I also think that what we have now put on the table adds something extra.
The rapporteur's idea in the first place to take the people who are not mobile workers and then to include them as far as possible in the existing directive is a good idea, because it contributes something new, which is a strengthening of the social dialogue.
I think that we have put forward a good report and that we must continue in the same fashion.
The total liberalisation of road transport on 1 July 1998, comes into force without any fiscal or social harmonisation having been implemented.
I hope that, even if some flexibility is possible, the number of annual hours should be limited, with an average week of 35 hours.
If this is not the case, it is essential that all drivers who travel between two points in any one country of the Union respect all aspects of social legislation in that country.
The Commission very much welcomes Mr Chanterie's report.
In 1993 when the working time directive was adopted, the Council decided to exclude certain sectors and activities from the scope of the directive.
In the White Paper we considered the possible options and came down in favour of what we called the differentiated approach.
We have subsequently confirmed this approach in the second-phase consultation documentation adopted by the Commission on 31 March.
Firstly, as your resolution states in paragraph 1, non-mobile workers must enjoy full protection in relation to working hours and must therefore be brought fully within the scope of Directive 93/104.
Secondly, as you say in paragraph 2 of your resolution, mobile workers must also enjoy full protection in relation to working hours and must therefore be brought as fully as possible within the scope of Directive 93/104.
Other amendments will provide basic protection for mobile workers and those engaged in other work at sea in respect of annual leave, annual working time, adequate rest and health assessments for night workers.
Fourthly, the central provisions where an agreement between the social partners is reached before 30 September 1998 and if the parties so request the Commission will make a proposal for a Council decision in accordance with Article 4(2) of the agreement on social policy.
Finally, my colleagues Padraig Flynn and Neil Kinnock expect to be tabling appropriate proposals later this year.
I would like to thank you on their behalf for your support today.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 11 a.m.
In the first case in particular, paragraph 10 of the report very clearly lays down ten criteria, a set of rules so to speak, for fair trade.
Thus we have here a series of criteria that are, in the view of the Committee on Development and Cooperation and in the view of the rapporteur, sufficiently precise but in no way rigid, that reflect the existing reality of what is already today fair trade and that offer consumers ample protection.
I will mention at least two of the consequences here: first, the criteria as proposed in the amendment are vaguer and weaker than the criteria listed in the motion for a resolution that came out of the Committee on Development and Cooperation; second, the amendment states that the criteria only have to be observed when the Commission helps fair trade organizations and producers.
It will be precisely by including fairness and solidarity in the great movement of international trade that we will lend greater relevance and credibility to the motto that has always been adhered to in carrying out this commendable activity: Trade, not Aid .
The Committee on Development and Cooperation report makes a number of important suggestions in this regard.
In its opinion the REX committee has chosen to focus on these principles.
As this is one of the European Union's primary objectives in its trade and development policy, the fair trade experience is of particular relevance.
This approach underlying fair trade effectively removes the obstacles to trade that exist for producers in developing countries.
A lot has been accomplished since the European Parliament's approval of the report by the late Alexander Langer a little over four years ago.
It is for this reason that we are asking the Commission for a specific communication focusing on four essential points: first, the incorporation of the principles of fair trade practices in more general policies of cooperation in international trade; second, the determination of specific instruments that are stronger than the instruments used today to support certain projects involving fair trade; third, the establishment of criteria to define fair trade or the production of specific fair trade products; fourth, the development of political dialogue with operators practising fairness and solidarity in trade.
Mr President, first of all my thanks to Mr Fassa for his sound report on the work of fair trade organizations and fair trade producers.
It is good that the report is being dealt with now as the Commission has already said it wishes to put forward a number of concrete proposals to help fair trade organizations and fair trade producers.
Whoever has seen fair trade producers at work, and in the past few years I have seen a number of projects in developing countries, knows that the commercial profit is perhaps somewhat lower but that at the same time the producers, many of them poor farmers, are often much better off if there really is a question of higher incomes for the workers involved, many more subsidiary social activities, such as schools and clinics that are set up, and that the population in the region also makes more profit.
So it really is something worth taking into account.
In my own country the Max Havelaar coffee and the Okee bananas in particular form a very positive shoot on the fair trade stem.
Because we see the report above all as an own-initiative report, we have limited it to a correction to paragraph 10.
This paragraph contains the criteria that fair trade companies, fair trade organizations and fair trade producers should satisfy.
In addition, given that, according to the rapporteur, there are 800 000 producers in the Third World who practice this kind of trade, it is essential to emphasize the importance of such fair trade.
We are in complete agreement with the rapporteur in that the criteria with which this trade must comply need to include direct buying, fair prices, transparency, respect for labour regulations, exclusion of child labour and respect for environmental regulations.
It is correct that a universal label makes it easier for consumers to find their way through the market, but the situation today is that we have labels such as Max Havelaar, which enjoys huge recognition and confidence among consumers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of fair trade arose during a long discussion when we were debating neo-liberal free trade ideology, and a number of specific criteria were developed for social and ecological sustainability.
Whereas the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in 1994 spoke of niches, of justice and of solidarity as regards these practices, today, Raimondo Fassa's report presents fair trade as another alternative which aims to establish fairer trading relations between rich countries and producers in the South.
So I would like to support the Fassa report, and particularly certain points in it: its definition of fair trade, the creation of a European label in order to avoid complexity and confusion for the consumer, the incorporation of fair trade into the Union's overall policies, and not only as an instrument of development policy, but also in all economic and commercial policies, so that it can be properly promoted.
Mr President, I too want to express my appreciation for Mr Fassa's report.
Since Parliament dealt with this matter in 1993, not enough has been done unfortunately to promote this form of cooperation, and the European Commission itself does not have a specific political line in this regard.
This instrument is important not only because it immediately improves the living standards of the communities concerned, today estimated at five million people in 45 developing countries, but also and especially because in the long term it turns small local producers into autonomous economic operators.
The Commission, the Council, the Member States should make a greater effort to promote the marketing of fair trade products.
In practical terms, fair trade must be recognized in its own right as an instrument of development and promoted without delay by making adequate human and financial resources available, possibly by also creating a specific line in the Union's budget.
In this form the report is a good idea.
Mr President, in welcoming this report I should like to highlight the purpose of my own amendments to the report by the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
It is to urge the Commission to produce its communication on fair trade which can act as a base for new legislation; for global research which can bring direct support to developing fair trade networks in the south as well as fair trade principles in the north; to support in principle a separate budget line ending the necessity of using NGO co-financing monies which are often not appropriate for producer cooperatives within the developing world; to end European discrimination against fair trade in fiscal terms, bringing forward preferential treatment which is compatible with the WTO because of the voluntary nature of the labels; and finally, to recognize the dangers of the proliferation of labels and the need to have a serious dialogue about the link between fair trade and the new ethical trading being promoted through codes of conduct, on which I am drawing up a report for the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
The committee also contributed over 50 amendments to the document which we have before us.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at voting time.
Thank you, Mr Rack.
It is not a problem of content, but one of logic. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President, there is one amendment to this report and it is a crucial amendment.
Madam President, together with the combination of the third and sixth paragraphs, plus points 1, 3 and 4 of my amendment.
Mrs Maij-Weggen, I am really very sorry, but it is very confusing and I have to tell you quite frankly that personally I am not at all sure what we are voting on. (Parliament adopted the resolution) On several occasions, Parliament has called for the development of a transport policy which would respect the environment, a policy which is innovative.
This facility was not approved by the Council, which maintained that it was nevertheless possible to finance projects extending to third countries.
I do not think that the Council has been able to justify its decision, in terms of the possible partnership between operators in third countries and from within the Community.
Our Committee on Transport and Tourism is trying to re-establish a logical approach to this matter, and I dare to hope that Amendment No 2 will receive sufficient votes.
Fontaine report (A4-0232/98) It could be helpful to recall the need to reform the directives on the recognition of diplomas.
The report by our colleague, Nicole Fontaine, provides important support for the European educational system, and more specifically for people who are training or are students.
I would therefore like to congratulate her on her work, which also represents a further step towards strengthening the idea of European citizenship.
This observation is also true for other fields, and it interferes with the construction of Europe.
The effort must be sustained and it is at this level that aid from the European Union will have its full effect.
The fragility of the peace process, the consequences of which are sometimes felt in the implementation of our MEDA partnership, will achieve a measure of stability with the instigation of a political dialogue with Jordan.
I think there are four particularly important aspects to this agreement: 1) the gradual creation of a free trade area which will benefit both parties; 2) the clause for the respect of human rights and democratic principles provided for in Article 2; 3) the initiation of regular political dialogue (Articles 3-5) and in particular the establishment of cooperation, to be defined, between our Parliament and the Jordanian Parliament; 4) cooperation between the European Union and Jordan as regards the fight against money laundering and drug trafficking.
Schmid report (A4-0234/98) The report by our colleague Gerhard Schmid is of great importance both for the communications industry and for Internet users.
I would like, therefore, to support the Community action plan which is put before us today.
In fact, many environmental problems which can be attributed to the urbanisation of our countries have consequences throughout the Union.
From this point of view, while we welcome the sectoral measures already taken by the Union, particularly as regards reduction of atmospheric pollution, it is regrettable that the Commission has delayed publishing the White Paper on the Urban Environment which we have been waiting for since the appearance, seven years ago now, of a Green Paper on the same subject.
However, as this report makes clear, people living in urban areas today face traffic congestion and pollution just as worrying as the old chimney smoke, but often invisible to the human eye.
Napoletano report (A4-0172/98) We think our party colleague Mrs Napoletano has written a good report.
In this sense, the work of the Eurocities network can mean a very interesting global approach to urban policies as regards large European conglomerations.
The next century will probably see an evolution in the urban environment, both in terms of its form and its size.
It is therefore important to take account of this fact in our discussion and in our political action.
I can only enthuse over my colleague Mrs Napoletano's report since this report deals with the urban problem as a whole, including the environmental, social, cultural and regional aspects and the citizens.
We need better coordination between the European institutions, more particularly between the Commission and the Member States.
Just as the Commission must integrate the urban dimension with other Community policies and actions, similarly the Member States must develop their urban policy (town contracts, state-region contracts for France) in parallel with policies for the application and use of monies from Structural Funds in their countries.
We need a global vision of spatial development, which confirms a European urban strategy which our Parliament prays for.
Local self-government, which is now defined in the Charter of Local Self-Government adopted by the Council of Europe, occupies a primordial place at the heart of the Europe which we are trying to build.
The resolution which we are voting on today provides a list which, while not exhaustive, nevertheless gives a good oversight, particularly as regards environmental, social and cultural aspects.
In this context, there is an urgent need to define a European urban strategy, which must be designed to be an integral part of a wider policy of spatial planning, the aim of which is to coordinate the effects of various Community policies throughout the Community and in different towns.
Unemployment, social exclusion, the poverty of sections of those residing in cities, racism, xenophobia, crime, unbalanced development - not only between different towns and cities in different countries, but even more so within the same country and within the same towns and cities and between neighbourhoods and sections of neighbourhoods -, the excessive pollution, the tragic degradation of the environment and the overall degeneration of the quality of life are neither coincidental nor unavoidable problems and, of course, they cannot be addressed with cover-ups, embellishing homilies and programmes.
Let this Parliament at last rise above these syndromes and let it show that it truly represents the tormented people in the urban centres of the European Union.
The Napoletano report on the urban question meets the aim of defining a "European urban strategy' .
Therefore, it was impossible for our group to approve a report so opposed to our own beliefs.
Urban policy is already the responsibility of towns, of urban districts of course, but also of municipalities, regions and states.
The list of those who have a part to play in this matter is sufficiently long without needing to add the European Union to the list.
Obviously, as Mrs Pollack's report suggested, we must pay full attention to the urban environment (waste management, air pollution, water treatment, employment, precariousness, preservation of our urban architectural heritage, migration ...).
Therefore this report appears too often as a catalogue of symptoms the source of which is elsewhere.
We must concentrate our efforts in favour of the rural and maritime worlds, in order to deal with excessive urban concentration which is the source of so many problems.
We must encourage both an agricultural system which is capable of preserving quality and the environment but also a diversification of economic activities in rural regions and thus combat the excesses of production-oriented agriculture.
The Union must concentrate its financial efforts in areas where an integrated policy applies, for example the CAP and the CFP, and avoid scattering public funds around in a futile and client-oriented manner.
Nowadays 80 % of EU citizens live in cities and the majority of business is conducted there too.
It is rare for environmental problems to be local in nature; the majority of large cities have the same problems.
At the same time we also need economic and social initiatives.
In this context, the initiatives of the 'Office International du Coin de Terre Jardins Familiaux' are of great importance.
Allotments therefore have an important part to play in improving the environmental and social situations in cities.
These organizations have been making valuable contributions to their cities for a long time now, both in terms of environmental protection and protection of green spaces, as well as in social terms.
Belenguer report (A4-0206/98) We note that this report is one in a long line of reports which demand the setting up of a new EU unit, in this case a 'permanent structure that will provide analytical support...' (recital K).
This does not mean that this common balance must not remain our guiding light, but we shall have to make quite an effort in order to recognize the implications at local level.
The first official project of the plan for Community spatial planning has allowed the local authorities to participate actively and to involve the economic actors in these regions in the debate.
Moreover, desertification of some of our rural territories has been aggravated by the coming into effect of the 1992 CAP and by the abandonment of the principle of Community preference, granted during the GATT negotiations.
The new CAP reform, as proposed in Agenda 2000, together with, inter alia, a significant reduction in agricultural prices, can only give rise to additional imbalances as regards spatial planning.
Our colleague Edouard des Places was right to insist upon this point yesterday.
Dührkop Dührkop report (A4-0256/98) We would like to protest over the farce played out here yesterday in the Hemicycle, when the Commission came to seek the support of the European Parliament to back its misappropriation of funds.
In fact, it was caught in "flagrante delito' : the Court of Justice of the European Communities - which is generally not severe with the Commission - had no choice but to condemn it, on 12 May last, for having committed budgetary expenditure without any legal basis.
The general budget of the European Union for 1995 allocated ECU 20 millions for the prevention of poverty and social exclusion.
The Commission, attacked at the very heart of its being, decided to ignore the Council's prohibition and in January 1996 announced that it granting subsidies to 86 projects relating to the "fight against poverty' objective, to a total of ECU 6 million.
We do not think that Europe can continue like this: on the one hand, with great proclamations of democracy, respect for the law, subsidiarity; on the other, behaviour on the part of the Commission which is contrary to such principles, and which does not seem to show any remorse even when caught with its hand in the till.
Garosci report (A4-0230/98) The European Commission, in its report on control systems at the point of sale implemented by Member States, recognizes many anomalies.
In fact, based on the premise that such controls exist in the fifteen Member States, the Commission has found that there are differences in application.
Let us not forget that the European Commission's report is linked to an estimation of the way the transitional system for duty-free sales will operate before abolition on 30 June 1999.
For our part, we are worried about this very important question of the abolition of duty-free sales, for both economic and social reasons.
We would like, therefore, to take advantage of the vote on this report, to remind the European Commission of the commitment of the House, as seen in the vote for a resolution on 3 April last, demanding an urgent study paying particular attention to the consequences of the abolition of duty-free on employment in the single market.
The stated intention of the Commission to persist with its policy to abolish duty-free sales after 30 June 1999 is totally unacceptable, particularly as the Commission has failed to fulfil the undertaking that it gave this Parliament to carry out a study on the economic and social consequences of abolition.
This applies, for example, to paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of the resolution, which contain recommendations about where the ticket shall be stamped when a person has bought duty-free goods.
As far as duty-free sales are concerned, I have voted against all the proposals from the UPE group which suggest that these sales should continue after 1 July 1999.
In my opinion that decision was a mistake.
In connection with the decision to abolish duty-free sales, the Commission promised a study of the economic and social consequences of an abolition.
The implementation of this procedure in 1999 will show drastic losses concurrently hitting several viable fronts.
The answer to this problem should not be found in a complete removal of the duty-free system, but in proposals for a more efficient manner in which to carry out such sales.
The key question here in political terms is the significance and future of duty-free sales within the Union.
The artificial prolongation of duty-free regulations as a roundabout way of achieving long term clarification of grey areas, as set out in Amendment No 29, is considered by the large majority of my group to be much too vague and indirect as well as being unfair and inefficient.
De Clercq report (A4-0205/98) We do not think that the EU should decide to what extent the Member States should teach a common syllabus of European history.
The citizen must thus be motivated to take an active part in this Parliament's dream of European unity.
Furthermore the citizen must gain a European consciousness, which must be encouraged through instruction in our so-called common history and culture.
The coming into being of a feeling of European citizenship can never be a means, at most it can be the end.
Those are enough reasons for our party to vote against this report.
The question of European citizenship is essential because it shows the spirit which is meant to guide the development of the European Union.
In fact, the very idea of citizenship cannot be dissociated from that of the State and it is clear that the affirmation of an even wider European citizenship arises out of the wish to achieve a European federal state, or a more centralized Europe.
The report by the chairman, Mr De Clercq is obviously consistent with this line of thinking.
The recommendation made to the political parties "to accept more Union citizens who are not nationals of the country concerned as partymembers and candidates on the electoral lists, and to encourage them to take part in political life in their country of residence' is significant here.
President Santer stated on 27 May, this year that the Commission must continue to play its political role, forcefully and totally independently.
The report by the chairman, Mr De Clercq forms part of this logic of a European state.
It is radically contrary to our concept of a Europe which respects peoples and nations.
While I welcome the work of our colleague Mr De Clercq on a subject which I hold very dear, I would also like to specify the weaknesses, as I see them, in this report.
That is why I agree with the rapporteur when he reminds the House, in the first point of his proposal for a resolution, of the protocol of Treaty of Amsterdam which aims to integrate the Schengen Agreement into the framework of the European Union and when he invites Member States to start work on this without further delay.
Citizens in the Union must feel at home in each of the Member States and must enjoy every freedom for setting up home, living, studying and working in those states.
Moreover, I am personally in favour of the right to vote to be granted to everyone living in my country for several years and who satisfy a certain number of conditions, whether the people are or are not European.
European citizenship which is implicit in this right to vote in municipal elections goes hand in hand with the respect of minority groups and, more broadly, has to do with the defence of our values which are tolerance, respect for differences and mutual comprehension.
The public's disillusionment as regards the construction of Europe is patent within several Member States.
Six years after its incorporation into the Maastricht Treaty, citizenship is still far too theoretical for our fellow citizens.
In the collective subconscious of Europeans, one is a citizen of a country in which one can wander around freely in every direction without having to show identity papers.
There are still too many obstacles today which prevent this from becoming a reality in the European Union.
The measures suggested in the proposal for a resolution which has been submitted to us is obviously a step in the right direction.
As regards European elections, we need the laws which apply to nationals to be automatically applicable to citizens of the European Union residing in the national territory.
In the case of my country, this means, inter alia, that voting rights will be obligatory for all nationals of Member States of the Union living in Belgium, unless they can prove that they vote in their own country.
Thus, we have chosen to vote against the report.
The undersigned have voted against the report by Mr De Clercq for the following reasons: 1.Issues of citizenship should be decided by the individual states without Union interference.
This should continue in future to be the prerogative of the Nation States.2.The right to vote in municipal elections for immigrants can be decided without introducing Union citizenship.
The right to vote in municipal elections should apply to all immigrants regardless of their country of origin.4.Freedom of movement without any restrictions is, as experience shows, absolutely undesirable for social reasons.
I want to use my voting declaration to call on my Belgian colleagues in this House not just to make grandiose statements here in the European Parliament but also to get down to work on it in their own party back home.
In brief, this report is far too federal for me to vote for it.
Oomen-Ruijten report (A4-0095/98) On several occasions, the European Parliament has said that the recognition of trade union rights must be effective.
This text by our colleague, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten is essential, and I support this initiative to include them in the Treaty on European Union.
Because of my political affiliation, I am also delighted by the general spirit of this report, which insists that concertation and consensus is a condition for lasting social and economic development.
Thus, I note with interest our colleague's wish to see a consolidation of the still embryonic situation between the different partners, and no longer between national organizations, but at European level.
This important advance in the recognition of unions might contribute to a better recognition of their role by our fellow citizens.
The European collective bargaining process will assist the coordinated implementation of the policy on employment and Economic and Monetary Union.
The restoration of fundamental social balances will not take place without the support of the social partners and the development of a European social dialogue.
Experience tells us that the partial globalization experienced in Europe for the past ten years or more has been accompanied by many perverse effects due to the absence of a European social dialogue.
Once it is realized, it will favour the establishment of lasting peace in terms of social relations in the European Union and will thus encourage economic growth.
Ratification by the 15 Member States of the European Union of the section of the Amsterdam Treaty relating to 'Social policy, education, vocational training and youth' , is a new step in the right direction, but it must be followed by others and, in particular, by the inclusion in the European Treaties of fundamental trade union rights.
In addition, the European Union will soon be opening its doors to states which do not have the same traditions as ourselves in terms of labour relations, nor the same habits of respect for trade union rights.
Compared with many other countries in the EU, the Swedish trade union movement is very highly developed and, compared with many other countries, it has a special position in the labour market.
Obviously I have nothing against the demand for fundamental social rights, but should these matters really be centralized in Brussels?
It is important to strengthen union rights at all levels, such as freedom of association, the right of collective bargaining and the right to strike.
I voted for the report because I am convinced that transnational trade union rights are essential as a counterweight to transnational markets.
When our committee discussed the report last February, I voted against it.
I am glad to vote for this report today and glad to see that the need to balance the EU's emphasis on trade with a strong social angle is being taken forward at the initiative of this Parliament.
In this spirit of teamwork in the workplace, Europe can create a culture of fairness at work - as my own government is doing at home.
The judgement reached on 17 June by the European Court of First Instance, which rejected the request from the UEAPME, the European Union of Crafts and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, to be allowed to take part as a full social partner in the European social policy discussions, is very regrettable.
This judgement confirms the position of power of the existing European social partners UNICE, CEEP and the ETUC.
This judgement leads us once again to ask questions about the procedure agreed in Maastricht whereby the "representative' social partners can reach European collective agreements about work without the intervention of the European Parliament and where the Council only acts as "solicitor' .
The report also rightly states that these ILO Conventions should be applied at Community level.
This decision goes against the ILO Conventions mentioned above.
In my opinion it is unacceptable to rule that an organization with more than nine million members, which employs some 50 million workers, should be excluded from discussions about European collective labour accords.
It is present in local associations but also at every level of our society, at regional, state, Community or even global level.
Economic and social cohesion in the European Union is and must also be the concern of the citizen.
This is true in such essential social areas as training, education and solidarity.
It has often been said in the House and by the Commission that this type of organization could, moreover, constitute an important source of jobs, so as to respond in a flexible and efficient manner to a number of unmet demands.
For this reason, we must support the proposals to increase European national or regional aid which can help these organizations in promoting jobs in priority sectors such as health or education, provided that the jobs so created are real jobs covered by real work contracts and not just precarious or badly paid jobs which serve only to bring down the unemployment statistics.
In conclusion, like the rapporteur, I resolutely support the Commission's commitment to promoting the role of voluntary organizations and foundations in Europe.
Chanterie report (A4-0229/98) Seven months after the road transport strike in France, the European Union is beginning to be aware of gaps in its legislation on working hours.
On 15 July 1997, the European Commission presented a White Paper on the sectors and activities excluded from the working time directive.
But, reading this paper, one can only be astonished that no proposals for directives or regulations are contained in it.
It is time to amend the regulation which has been effective since 1985 (3820/85) relating to driving time and rest periods.
As long ago as December 1997, the French government had presented a memorandum demanding European harmonization of social rules in the road transport sector before the full opening of the market, which is planned for 1 July 1998.
As we are about to vote on this report, I would like to remind the House of the urgency of harmonization in European road transport.
If implemented properly, a different distribution of working time could help to create or to preserve a large number of jobs.
Thus, I share the viewpoint not only of our rapporteur but also of the Joint Sectoral Committees of several excluded sectors, that working time is an issue that must be discussed fully within the context of European industrial and social relations.
While it must be clear to everyone that the flexibility which is needed to ensure the competitiveness of our businesses must not in any way become synonymous for workers with a deterioration in their living conditions or a lowering of standards of safety and protection, we should also condemn as unacceptable the fact that workers excluded from the benefits of European legislation should, therefore, be obliged to work in conditions which are potentially harmful to their family life or dangerous for their health and safety or that of others.
I would like to stress in particular the need for the European Union to adopt the necessary means to improve controls and harmonize sanctions, in order to combat excessive working hours.
In collaboration with the social partners and the Member States, the Commission must be the driving force in this respect.
It is clear that the working time directive will be an essential factor in improving the quality of life of all citizens and in particular for the six million workers concerned.
While this may still seem a Utopian dream, except for white collar and office workers, the social partners must pay close attention to this and there should be specific clauses in each contract of employment and in each regulation.
Our society will only progress if there is greater investment in people, in their intelligence, in their desire for recognition of their skills, in their ability to progress throughout their life.
We have today voted in favour of all EU wage-earners being able to derive maximum benefit from the 1993 directive on working hours.
It is an excellent solution that regulations on working hours for mobile employees in the excluded sectors are being negotiated on the spot between the parties to the labour market.
It is quite unacceptable for five million non-mobile workers in the EU not to be covered by the directive on working hours.
Five years later, whereas there have been enormous gains in productivity everywhere, the Council and the European Commission are incapable of proposing substantial improvements to the 1993 directive and the specific decisions dealing with excluded sectors.
Working time for long-distance drivers must take account of the amount of time which is actually worked (unloading, loading, breaks, etcetera)., it must very quickly come down to the 35-hour week and should never exceed 39 hours.
It would not be at all difficult to write an entire novel on the evolution and the discussions on working time in the road transport sector.
That is why I think that enough has been written and there has been enough blah, blah, blah, as Pauline Green has said, and that now we have to quickly find solutions which attack an iniquity which is less and less acceptable.
How can we exclude from the working directive this sector which is so vital to our every day life, when social conditions are regulated in all other sectors of employment?
If we note that Directive 3820/85 authorises a working time of 13 hours in the transport sector, with a daily rest of 11 hours, which can be reduced to 9 hours three times per week, whereas we generally think of a working week of 35 hours, we note that we have a social situation where the social laws are a throwback to another age, in working conditions which were criticised by Emile Zola in "Germinal' .
These three sectors need suitable working hours and rest periods, acceptable compensations must be arranged with a method for calculating working time over a 28-day period and another for 365 days in order to calculate retirement; thus, in future it will be easy to control this in road transport with the introduction of the new tachograph 1 B.
This could satisfy a profession which, by its nature, is forced to work differently from all other sectors and for which working time in a given 12-month period could also be taken into consideration in order to achieve a retirement age of 55, as has been negotiated following a strike in France.
The implementation of the guidelines for the opening up of the markets to arrant competition and for the abolition, in any way possible, of national instruments, together with the logic of reducing, at all costs, the operating costs in sectors such as air and rail transport, has led to the violation of collective agreements, not only in respect of working time, but also in respect of the remaining conditions of work.
Unfortunately, the Commission, faithfully following a narrowly-defined economic logic relating to the notion of competitiveness, refuses even today to draw the necessary conclusions from the regression that the Council imposed in the directive in respect of the Social Charter on Fundamental Rights for Workers, and merely points out that "the directive permits work for more hours than is usual in practice in most Member States' .
Fassa report (A4-0198/98) I reject the report by Mr Fassa on fair trade as it now stands because I consider its approach, which favours increased aid for small and medium-sized producers in developing countries, to be mistaken.
In particular, I do not think that the complete regulation and definition of what we call fair trade and the setting up of a comprehensive support mechanism can make much difference in improving the situation for small and medium-sized producers in developing countries.
The juxtaposition of two trade systems governed by two different ethical codes and using very different tariffs seems at the least unrealistic.
Over and above the challenges of fair trade for development, this report illustrates the need for a more generalized correction of a global trade regime which involves absolutely no parameters as regards development or the environment, or any social clauses.
I am voting for this report today as, like so many consumers in Britain and the EU, I am a keen supporter of fair trade practices with the poorest countries of our world.
EU trade agreements with the rest of the world should have encouragement for small-scale producers in developing countries built in as a central plank of a joined-up trade and development policy, not bolted on as optional extras after major trade deals have already been signed.
We have already put in place special clauses on the environment and social standards into some of our agreements with poorer countries, so there is no reason why fair trade clauses should not now become standard practice too.
