On page 28 of the Rainbow he suggests that we do not have any democratic mandate or legitimacy because we were elected on a Labour ticket and therefore we should not be sitting as Members of the House.
Thank you very much, Mr Wynn, for following the matter so carefully.
He advised me that per part-session since February 120 Members have had their allowances adjusted as a result.
Our group supports this report in substance, as well as the proposal for a regulation, but wishes to stress that the Commission must remain impartial with regard to the fishermen of the various Member States.
Denmark is the largest producer of fish meal in the European Union, accounting for 80 % of industrial production and 6 % of the world market.
Our rapporteur quotes a number of particularly impressive statistics relating to industrial fisheries: 30 % of all world catches comes from industrial fisheries.
The proportion may be as high as 60 % in some seas, such as the North Sea, which is extremely vulnerable, as we all know.
McCartin report (A4-0204/98) As I said in my speech, our group tabled 15 amendments to Mr McCartin's report.
Varela Suanzes-Carpegna report (A4-0137/98) Our group supports the overall approach adopted by Mr Varela in his report.
Market in oils and fat The next item is the statement on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 136/66/EEC on the establishment of a common organization of the market in oils and fats (COM(98)0171 - C4-0229/98-98/0098(CNS)).
Although this Commission proposal has its flaws, it does have two merits in my view: the first is that it takes account of the arguments of the majority of this Parliament.
Personally, I was critical of the Jové Peres compromise, but I must acknowledge today that after the stormy debates in 1997 on the fundamental points of the compromise reached in December, the Commission has accepted Parliament's arguments.
In all the discussion papers on the CAP reform which also concern Agenda 2000, the Group of the European People's Party talks about rebalancing resources between the various sectors and between the various areas of the European Union.
Mr President, Madam President, Commissioner, we are debating here a particularly important point.
We are all aware of the importance of agriculture for the European Union and the importance of certain agricultural sectors, not for the entire European territory but for very specific areas.
Commissioner, in certain areas, guarantees for the countryside are guarantees for particular crops which are, in fact, monocultures in those areas.
Madam President, the Commission has put forward a number of proposals for the reform of the market in olive oil, chiefly because there were doubts concerning the effectiveness and transparency of a double system of aid to producers.
The reform of the market in olive oil is urgent and it should come about soon and last until 2006, in other words, it should have the same time scale as the other products subsumed under Agenda 2000.
The list could be much longer, as demonstrated by the large number of amendments which have been tabled.
I am sure that a more detailed consideration of its proposal on the part of the Commission would lead, as has happened in other sectors - such as wine - to a new proposal, a much more realistic one, which maintains the economic and social cohesion which must inspire all of the Community policies of the European Union.
The Commission must begin to treat Mediterranean farmers fairly.
Madam President, Commissioner, what has happened this week in connection with the reform of the olive oil sector confirms that, by agreeing to urgent procedure, the European Parliament has taken a very serious decision, because it has agreed to deal with a very important reform without drawing up a report, acting on impulse in response to circumstances and when there was no need to observe close time limits.
We are faced with a valuable choice because it is concrete, and it is concrete because it takes account of the quality and quantity of agricultural production with mechanisms to assist production and with mechanisms to determine national quotas; it is concrete because it takes account of the urgency of intervention; last but not least, it is a concrete political choice because it takes into account the Mediterranean dimension and the rural dimension of the European economy.
It was therefore a pleasant surprise, and, Mr Fischler, I hope you will continue to give us pleasant surprises, to see the Commission abandon some initial proposals which would have caused ructions in the olive oil industry, and put forward a proposal very much in line with European Parliament proposals.
The system of intervention must be preserved as a safety net for the producer.
Thirdly, within the framework of Agenda 2000, the changes to the common organization of the markets have a time-scale until 2006.
Madam President, Commissioner, it is with great satisfaction that I am taking part in this debate which our group called for.
Commissioner, you know the sector perfectly well - and we know how sensitive you are towards this topic - and on many occasions you have said that there would not be a reform which would be detrimental to producing countries.
Chief among these is the exceeding of average guaranteed quantities at European level, and indeed by a large amount, with the result that subsidies for producers are falling dramatically in all countries, even when production in one country is low.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to express my thanks for the constructive debate that we have all shared today in this discussion on the olive oil sector.
May I remind you that as long ago as December 18 1997, with its decision on the olive oil sector, the European Parliament made a fundamental contribution to the debate on the common organization of this market.
The Commission has addressed the recommendations expressed in your proposal of March 18 this year in the following way: first, the Commission shares the view of Parliament that an urgent reform is necessary.
The European Parliament wishes to establish national reference quantities.
The European Parliament wishes to maintain an intervention mechanism by means of private storage.
The European Parliament wishes once and for all to abolish the consumption subsidies.
In view of the time available, I prefer to restrict myself to the most important problem areas in my further work, instead of dealing with each of the 163 proposed amendments.
Some amendments refer to the principles of the future reform in the year 2001.
The amendments that concern the use of currently unused maximum guaranteed quantities include some technical options that we will certainly examine in the context of a general balance.
Numerous amendments concern the intervention regulation as well as the subsidy for private storage.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, we have just voted on the Commission proposal as modified by the amendments which we have just introduced.
In this case it is not a matter of a request for referral back to committee on behalf of a group of 29 Members.
The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture asked the Commissioner what he thought about the result of Parliament's vote, and the Commissioner answered that he was sympathetic towards it.
And tomorrow, we are going to tell the producers of olive oil and European farmers that the Commissioner was sympathetic towards this vote by Parliament.
Secondly, if we refer to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman of a committee, in my opinion according to the interpretation of Rule 60(2), can request referral to a committee only when the Commission states that it does not intend to accept any - I repeat, any - of Parliament's amendments.
It is unacceptable that this House should have decided to vote on the proposal for a regulation without waiting for the completion of the Parliamentary report, which, furthermore, could have been ready in time for the debate and vote at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture this month, and for debate and vote in the House in July.
For these reasons, although we disagree with the process, we vote in favour of the regulation as amended by a set of amendments that originated in our group.
Set-aside requirement The next item is the debate on the proposal for a Council Regulation derogating from Regulation (EEC) No 1765/92 establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops as regards the set-aside requirement for the marketing year 1999/2000 (COM(98)03661 - C4-0363/98-98/0213(CNS)).
Mr President, I will make my explanation of vote in writing as I intended, but I also wish to say orally that it is scandalous that Parliament has given its opinion an issue as important as this without holding a debate.
The compulsory setaside quota was set at 15 % in 1993 and 1994 and at 5 % in 1997 and 1998.
We welcome the fact that the cyclical set-aside is set at 10 % and that no new planting of fodder plants is permitted.
I call on the Council and the Commission to implement the resolution of 10 % very swiftly so that the farmers can plan their planting in good time.
The proposal by the Commission concerning the compulsory set-aside of 10 % of arable land for next year is unavoidable.
However, the proposal puts the Commission in a difficult position as Agenda 2000 proposes only voluntary set-aside.
The European Commission should investigate whether compulsory use of these products initially in ecologically sensitive areas is economically feasible, especially from an environmental point of view.
From 1992 to 1997, we were told that the set-aside was having a positive effect.
According to Brussels, we must stop planting olive trees after 2001, although the consumption of olive oil is increasing and we are world leaders, producing 80 % of the total quantity of olive oil.
We therefore oppose the Commission's proposal to increase the compulsory uncultivated-land tax on cereals from 5 % to 10 %.
In that context, and as a means of preventing the approval of the Commission's proposals, we opt to vote in favour of the amendments tabled, the object of which is essentially to maintain the current 5 % rate of tax on uncultivated land.
Our group has tabled two amendments to your proposal.
European farmers will not accept a rise in the set-aside requirement due to management errors and the situation in the world market, particularly considering the fact that, within the framework of Agenda 2000 and CAP 2000, the Commission has proposed a set-aside of 0 %.
As the initiator, in June 1997, of the oral question to the Commission, supported by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the establishment of the set-aside requirement before 30 June of each year, I thank the Commission for requesting an urgent debate on this subject.
However, if the 'Santer package' anticipates a set-aside of 0 % by the year 2000, I wonder why the Commission is now proposing a set-aside of 10 %.
To conclude, and to return to this morning's debate, my group will support the 5 % set-aside requirement.
This is why our group has tabled amendments to prevent the application of the extraordinary set-aside and to limit the compulsory set-aside to 5 %, instead of the 10 % proposed by the Commission.
A few weeks ago, we received proposals for the reform of the COM for arable crops, in which the Commission proposed a compulsory set-aside of 0 %.
The Commission did respond to our request, in the report by Mr des Places on the price package, for a proposal on the set-aside requirement before the end of this month.
Before the vote on Amendment No 31 Mr President, I would like to make two points.
Yet another application is contained subsequently in the legislative resolution, which provides for the increase to ECU 500 million.
This will obviously be damaging to bananas produced in the European Union - particularly in Madeira - and those imported from the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, which have long-standing agreements with the European Union under the Lomé Convention.
In some ways the regulation is intended to provide a minimum amount of compensation to offset reductions in the prices of bananas from the ACP countries - and thus in producers' incomes - in face of increased competition from a large quantity of dollar bananas which will be allowed free entry into the European Union.
It should be emphasized - as we already have done when stating the reasons for our vote on the Thomas report on the new common organization of the market for bananas - that this situation has become possible only because the decisions of the World Trade Organization, which increasingly panders to American interests, are being imposed on the European Union without any reaction or show of political will by the latter in defence of its producers and those in the poor ACP countries.
The attack being made against us at present with regard to bananas by firms involved in production in Latin America must be examined in conjunction with the difficulties we are meeting in trying to impose an obligation to use 100 % cocoa in the manufacture of chocolate.
Mr President, on behalf of the PPE Group and pursuant to Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the debate be postponed until the next mini-part-session in Brussels.
Mr President, I only wanted to say that in the committee there was a spirit of harmony between the various political groups and therefore I must carefully follow the request made by the Group of the European People's Party which made an important contribution to solving these problems.
Mr Schulz wishes to speak in favour of the request.
