That November, the German Army Group Centre was stopped at the outskirts of the city and then driven off in the course of the Battle of Moscow.
Like the Boulevard Ring, the Garden Ring follows the path of a sixteenth century wall that used to encompass part of the city.
One tower will be the second tallest in the world when it is completed in 2012, the -tall Russia Tower.In recent years, the city administration has been widely criticized for heavy destruction that has affected many historical buildings.
The Pushkin Museum is similar to the British Museum in London in that its halls are a cross-section of world civilisations, with many plaster casts of ancient sculptures.
However, it also hosts famous paintings from every major Western era of art; works by Claude Monet, Paul Cézanne, and Pablo Picasso are all sampled there.The State Historical Museum of Russia (Государственный Исторический музей) is a museum of Russian history wedged between Red Square and Manege Square in Moscow.
Its exhibitions range from relics of the prehistoric tribes inhabiting present-day Russia, through priceless artworks acquired by members of the Romanov dynasty.
Other big Ice Hockey clubs from Moscow are HC Dynamo Moscow, which was the second most titled team in the Soviet Union, Krylya Sovetov Moscow, and HC Spartak Moscow.The most titled Soviet, Russian, and one of the most titled Euroleague clubs, is the Basketball club from Moscow PBC CSKA Moscow.
Another strong Basketball club from Moskow is MBC Dynamo Moscow.Moscow had more winners at the USSR and Russian Chess Championship then any other city.
The Moscow State University library contains over nine million books, making it one of the largest libraries in all of Russia.
Today, one could expect to pay US$4000 in average per square meter (11&nbsp;sq&nbsp;ft) in the outskirts of the cityhttp://rus.intermark.ru/about-us/press/mt_20_10/ US$4,500 for a Square Meter of Apartment Space.
This area is the only spot in downtown Moscow that can accommodate a project of this magnitude.
