Ælle (also Aelle or Ella, ) is recorded in early sources as the first king of the South Saxons, reigning in what is now called Sussex, England, from 477 to perhaps as late as 514.
The information about him is so limited that it cannot be said with certainty that Ælle existed.Ælle and three of his sons are reported to have arrived from the continent near what is now Selsey Bill&mdash;the exact location is under the sea, and is probably a sandbank currently known as the Owers&mdash;and fought with the Britons.
Although the details of these traditions cannot be verified, evidence from the place names of Sussex does make it clear that it was an area with extensive and early settlement by the Saxons, supporting the idea that this was one of their early conquests.Ælle was the first king recorded by the eighth century chronicler Bede to have held "imperium", or overlordship, over other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms.Bede, Ecclesiastical History, II 5.
Nowhere is this claim more dangerous than when it is staked in Britain between AD 400 and 600" (The Anglo-Saxons, p. 20).
By the early fifth century Britain had been Roman for over three hundred and fifty years.
The most troublesome enemies of Roman Britain were the Picts of central and northern Scotland, and the Gaels known as Scoti, who were raiders from Ireland.
Also vexatious were the Saxons, the name Roman writers gave to the peoples who lived in the northern part of what is now Germany and the southern part of the Jutland peninsula.
Roman control of Britain finally ended in the early part of the fifth century; the date usually given as marking the end of Roman Britain is 410, when the Emperor Honorius sent letters to the British, urging them to look to their own defence.
The last entry on the page, for 488, refers to events in Kent and does not mention Ælle.]]There are two early sources that mention Ælle by name.
The earliest is The Ecclesiastical History of the English People, a history of the English church written in 731 by Bede, an English monk.
Bede gives a list of seven kings who held "imperium", and Ælle is the first of them.
It is known that the annalists used material from earlier chronicles, as well as from oral sources such as sagas, but there is no way to tell where these lines came from.Swanton, Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, pp.
Sandbanks&mdash;the Middle and Outer Owers&mdash;now mark the spot.Hunter Blair, Roman Britain, p. 176.
The list consists of Bede's original seven, plus Egbert of Wessex.Swanton, Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, pp. 60–61.
There has been much scholarly debate over just what it meant to be a "bretwalda", and the extent of Ælle's actual power in southern England is an open question.Hunter Blair, An Introduction, pp. 201–202.Campbell et al, The Anglo-Saxons, pp. 53–54.
The earliest reference is still quite late, however, at about 692: a charter of King Nothelm's, which styles him "King of the South Saxons".Kirby, Earliest English Kings, pp. 20–21.
Gildas's description of the state of England in his time is useful for understanding the ebb and flow of the Anglo-Saxon incursions.
Procopius, a Byzantine historian, writing not long after Gildas, adds to the meagre sources on population movement by including a chapter on England in one of his works.
The strongest evidence comes from place names that end in "-ing", such as Worthing and Angmering.
Hence it is generally accepted that these place names are evidence of the establishment of Saxon communities with stable populations as early as the fifth and sixth centuries.Hunter Blair, An Introduction, p. 22.
In addition, Sussex has unusually few place names of British origin.
The idea of a pause in the Anglo-Saxon advance is also supported by the account in Procopius of sixth century migration from Britain to the kingdom of the Franks.
Procopius's account is consistent with what is known to be a contemporary colonization of Armorica (now Brittany, in France); the settlers appear to have been at least partly from Dumnonia (modern Cornwall), and the area acquired regions known as Dumnonée and Cornouaille.Campbell et al, The Anglo-Saxons, p. 22.
It seems likely that something at that time was interrupting the general flow of the Anglo-Saxons from the continent to Britain.Stenton, Anglo-Saxon England, p. 12.The dates for Ælle's battles are also reasonably consistent with what is known of events in the kingdom of the Franks at that time.
Clovis I united the Franks into a single kingdom during the 480s and afterwards, and the Franks' ability to exercise power along the southern coast of the English channel may have diverted Saxon adventurers to England rather than the continent.It is possible, therefore, that a historical king named Ælle existed, who arrived from the continent in the late fifth century, and who conquered much of what is now Sussex.
This may be the origin of the reputation that led Bede to list him as holding overlordship over southern Britain.Fletcher, Who's Who, p. 17.
