The quasar that appears brightest in the sky is 3C&amp;nbsp;273 in the constellation of Virgo.
It has an average apparent magnitude of 12.8 (bright enough to be seen through a small telescope), but it has an absolute magnitude of −26.7.
From a distance of about 33 light-years, this object would shine in the sky about as brightly as our sun.
This quasar's luminosity is, therefore, about 2 trillion (2 × 1012) times that of our sun, or about 100 times that of the total light of average giant galaxies like our Milky Way.The hyperluminous quasar APM 08279+5255 was, when discovered in 1998, given an absolute magnitude of −32.2, although high resolution imaging with the Hubble Space Telescope and the 10&nbsp;m Keck Telescope revealed that this system is gravitationally lensed.
The jets that produce strong radio emission in some quasars at the centers of clusters of galaxies are known to have enough power to prevent the hot gas in these clusters from cooling and falling down onto the central galaxy.Quasars are found to vary in luminosity on a variety of time scales.
This means that quasars generate and emit their energy from a very small region, since each part of the quasar would have to be in contact with other parts on such a time scale to coordinate the luminosity variations.
These lines are brighter than the continuous spectrum, so they are called 'emission' lines.
Light from these stars may have been observed in 2005 using NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope,NASA Goddard Space Flight Center: News of light that may be from population III stars although this observation remains to be confirmed.== History of quasar observation ==The first quasars were discovered with radio telescopes in the late 1950s.
Many were recorded as radio sources with no corresponding visible object.
Using small telescopes and the Lovell Telescope as an interferometer, they were shown to have a very small angular size.
Hundreds of these objects were recorded by 1960 and published in the Third Cambridge Catalogue as astronomers scanned the skies for the optical counterparts.
In 1960, radio source 3C 48 was finally tied to an optical object.
Another radio source, 3C 273, was predicted to undergo five occultations by the moon.
Schmidt realized that these were actually spectral lines of hydrogen redshifted at the rate of 15.8 percent.
There were also serious concerns regarding the idea of cosmologically distant quasars.
Supermassive Black Holes in the Universe 2003, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-81405-8 (Cloth)See alsoActive galactic nuclei (AGN)BlazarList of quasarsOptically Violently Variable (OVV) quasarsSupermassive black holeM-sigma relationMicroquasarReferencesComplete Cosmos - Discovery Science ChannelExternal links3C 273, the brightest quasar3C 273: Variable Star Of The SeasonSKY-MAP.ORG SDSS image of quasar 3C 273Expanding Gallery of Hires Quasar ImagesGallery of Quasar Spectra from SDSSSDSS Advanced Student Projects: QuasarsBlack Holes: Gravity's Relentless Pull Award-winning interactive multimedia Web site about the physics and astronomy of black holes from the Space Telescope Science InstituteResearch Sheds New Light On Quasars (SpaceDaily) July 26, 2006Category:Quasars Category:Radio astronomy Category:Active galaxy typesar:نجم زائف bn:কোয়াসার bs:Kvazar bg:Квазар ca:Quàsar cs:Kvasar de:Quasar et:Kvasar el:Κβάζαρ es:Cuásar eo:Kvazaro fa:اخترنما fr:Quasar gl:Quasar ko:퀘이사 hr:Kvazar it:Quasar he:קוואזר la:Quasar lv:Kvazāri lt:Kvazaras hu:Kvazár nl:Quasar ja:クエーサー no:Kvasar pl:Kwazar pt:Quasar ro:Quasar ru:Квазар simple:Quasar sk:Kvazar sl:Kvazar sr:Квазар sh:Kvazar fi:Kvasaari sv:Kvasar ta:துடிப்பண்டம் th:เควซาร์ vi:Quasar tr:Kuasar uk:Квазари zh:类星体
