In John, the gift of the Spirit is equivalent to eternal life, knowledge of God, power to obey, and communion with one another and with the Father.Mainstream ChristianityChristians believe that the Holy Spirit leads people to faith in Jesus and gives them the ability to lead a Christian life.
As "by one Spirit we were all baptized", so we are also "made to drink of one Spirit." () Thus the Spirit is also personally the living water welling up from Christ crucified (; ) as its source and welling up in us to eternal life. (Cf. ; ; ; ; ; ; ; )Anointing - The symbolism of anointing with oil also signifies the Holy Spirit, to the point of becoming a synonym for the Holy Spirit. (Cf. ; ) In Christian initiation, anointing is the sacramental sign of Confirmation, called "chrismation" in the Churches of the East.
They believe that Jesus' body had a spirit until death, just as any live body has a spirit until separated by death, but believe the spirit of Jesus Christ is the Holy Spirit of God and therefore was able to return to and raise his human body from the grave.
If it is sometimes represented as being distinct from God, it is because the breath of Yahweh acts exteriorly. … The majority of New Testament texts reveal God's spirit as something, not someone; this is especially seen in the parallelism between the spirit and the power of God." (New Catholic Encyclopedia, 1967, Vol. 14, pp. 574, 575).If it is sometimes represented as being distinct from God, it is because the breath of Yahweh acts exteriorly (Isa. 48:16; 63:11; 32:15).
It is the power by which Christ maintains the universe ().
Category:Biblical phrases Category:Christian symbols Category:Charismatic and Pentecostal Christianity Category:Christian Pneumatology Category:Islam and other religions Category:Names of God Category:Judeo-Christian topics Category:God Category:Triune godsaf:Heilige Gees ar:الروح القدس az:Müqəddəs Ruh bg:Свети Дух ca:Esperit Sant cs:Duch Svatý da:Helligånden de:Heiliger Geist et:Püha Vaim el:Άγιο Πνεύμα es:Espíritu Santo eo:Sankta Spirito eu:Espiritu Santu fa:روح‌القدس fr:Saint-Esprit fy:Hillige Geast ga:An Spiorad Naomh gl:Espírito Santo ko:성령 hr:Duh Sveti ig:Mmuo Nso id:Allah Roh Kudus ia:Spirito Sancte is:Heilagur andi it:Spirito Santo he:רוח הקודש (נצרות) ka:სულიწმინდა sw:Roho Mtakatifu la:Spiritus Sanctus lb:Hellege Geescht lt:Šventoji Dvasia hu:Szentlélek mk:Свет Дух ml:പരിശുദ്ധാത്മാവ് ms:Roh Kudus nl:Heilige Geest nds-nl:Heilige Geest ja:聖霊 no:Den Hellige Ånd nn:Den heilage ande pl:Duch Święty pt:Espírito Santo ro:Duhul Sfânt qu:Ch'uya Ispiritu ru:Святой Дух sq:Shpirti i Shenjtë simple:Holy Spirit sk:Duch Svätý sl:Sveti Duh sr:Свети Дух sh:Sveti Duh fi:Pyhä Henki sv:Den Helige Ande vi:Chúa Thánh Linh uk:Святий Дух wa:Sint Esprit zh-yue:聖神 zh:聖靈
