It is best attested in the cities of Rome and Ostia and in some of the Empire's provinces, specifically Mauretania, Britain and those along the Rhine and Danube frontier.Rituals and worshipMithraism was an initiatory order, passed from initiate to initiate, like the Eleusinian Mysteries.
Ulansey suggests that the two torch-bearers represent the two equinoxes, and that their crossed legs represent the two intersection points of the zodiac and the celestial equator that define the equinoxes.
Together with Varuna, he counted among the Adityas, a group of solar deities, also in later Vedic texts.
As Boyce put it, "no satisfactory evidence has yet been adduced to show that, before Zoroaster, the concept of a supreme god existed among the Iranians, or that among them Mithra - or any other divinity - ever enjoyed a separate cult of his or her own outside either their ancient or their Zoroastrian pantheons." pp. 243,n.18It should however be noted that while it is "generally agreed that Cumont's master narrative of east-west transfer is unsustainable," a syncretic Zoroastrian (whatever that might have entailed at the time) influence is a viable supposition., p. 4.
Mithraea have also been found in Poetovio (today Ptuj) in Pannonia, along the Danube and Rhine river frontier, in the province of Dacia (where in 2003 a temple was found in Alba-Iulia) and as far afield as Numidia in North Africa.As would be expected, Mithraic ruins are also found in the port city of Ostia, and in Rome the capital, where as many as seven hundred mithraea may have existed (a dozen have been identified).
Although as remarked above, little was actually known about Mithras in 1882.Martin (1989) characterizes the rivalry between 3rd century Mithraism and Christianity in Rome as primarily one for real estate in the public areas of urban Rome.Martin (1989), p. 4f.Iconographical similarities with Christian art in late antiquity The Jewish faith provided no precedent for pictorial representation on which the Early Christians could base their imagery.
