Located strategically at the crossroads between Europe and Asia and lying along the historic Silk Road routes, Tbilisi has often been the point of contention between various rivaling powers and empires.
The city life was immortalized in their art by Niko Pirosmani and Lado Gudiashvili.HistoryEarly historyAccording to an old legend, the present-day territory of Tbilisi was covered by forests as late as 458 AD.
The King's falcon allegedly caught/injured a pheasant during the hunt, after which both birds fell into a nearby hot spring and died (from the burns received in the hot water).
King Vakhtang became so impressed with the hot springs that he decided to cut down the forest and build a city on the location.
Towards the end of the 4th century the fortress fell into the hands of the Persians after which the location fell back into the hands of the Kings of Kartli (Georgia) by the middle of the 5th century AD.
During his reign, King Dachi I was also responsible for finishing the construction of the fortress wall that lined the city's new boundaries.
The cultural development of the city was therefore heavily dependent on who ruled the city at various times.
After the battles for Tbilisi concluded, David moved his residence from Kutaisi (Western Georgia) to Tbilisi, making it the capital of a unified Georgian State.
By the end of the 12th century, the population of Tbilisi had reached 80,000.
The city also became an important literary and a cultural center not only for Georgia but for the larger civilized world as well.
In the 1320s, the Mongols were forcefully expelled from Georgia and Tbilisi became the capital of an independent Georgian state once again.
In 1444, the city was invaded and destroyed by Jahan Shah (the Shah of the town of Tabriz in Persia).
In 1522 A.D., Tbilisi came under Persian control but was later freed in 1524 by King David X of Georgia.
From the 17-18th centuries, Tbilisi once again became the object of rivalry only this time between the Ottoman Turks and Persia.
New roads and railroads were built to connect Tbilisi to other important cities in Russia and other parts of the Transcaucasus (locally) such as Batumi, Poti, Baku, and Yerevan.
It was here, in the former Caucasus Vice royal Palace, where the independence of three Transcaucasian nations – Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan – was declared on May 26 to 28 1918.
Since then, Tbilisi functioned as the capital of the Democratic Republic of Georgia until 25 February 1921.
After a brief Civil War which the city endured for two weeks from December 1991 to January 1992 (when pro-Gamsakhurdia and Opposition forces clashed with each other), Tbilisi became the scene of frequent armed confrontations between various mafia clans and illegal business entrepreneurs.
