Each character can learn three Quickenings, which are unique to that character.
The temperate climate of Dalmasca differs from the cold environs of Kerwon and the lush plains of Valendia and Ordalia.
The family also consists of two siblings, Vayne and Larsa, the former a militaristic genius and the latter a charismatic seeker of peace.
The Dalmascan king, Raminas, who is forced to sign a treaty of surrender, is slated to be assassinated.Ondore: The King had scarce departed His Royal City of Rabanastre when the Remnants of the Order made their Return.
In Nalbina, the trio encounters Basch and escapes with him, after learning of the existence of his twin, Judge Magister Gabranth.
They also learn of Penelo's kidnapping by headhunter Ba'Gamnan, who uses her to lure Balthier to him.
This brings them to a meeting in Bhujerba with Lamont, a curious boy who is in truth Vayne's younger brother, Larsa.Larsa: Vayne Solidor, the Consul, is my brother ...
Larsa, who had been investigating Vayne's connection with the manufacted Nethicite,Larsa: Dalmasca would be the battlefield!
Their plan to announce Ashe's status as Dalmascan Queen and to persuade Gramis for peace was forestalled with the Emperor's death at the supposed hands of the Archadian Senate Chairman, Gregoroth.Al-Cid: The Emperor Gramis is no more.
defeating Gabranth, who admits to killing her father in an attempt to force her to give in to her hate.Gabranth: Yes, it was I who wore Basch’s face- who cut down the Life of Dalmasca.
Ashe learns from Al-Cid that an impending war between Archadia and the Resistance group led by Marquis Ondore, who defied the Empire after the Leviathan incident,Reddas: The time approaches when he must make his position vis-à-vis the Empire clear.
Infiltrating the sky fortress with the aid of the Resistance, Basch confronts Gabranth, who spews hate towards his twin, yet taken by Basch's loyalty.Gabranth: You confound me, brother!
The party encounters Vayne and Larsa, the latter objecting to Vayne's plot for power;Vayne: Observe well, Larsa.
It also achieved "PS2 Game of the Year" and "PS2 RPG of the Year" in GameSpy's Game of the Year 2006, and won "Best PS2 RPG" and "PS2 Game of the Year" in the IGN Awards.
Additionally, the game features the English voices and the widescreen 16:9 ratio support of the North American version, as well as a bonus disc based on the one initially released with the North American version.
