It is best known for its professional football team, which is the most successful club in German football, having won 21 German titles and 14 cups.The club was founded in 1900 by eleven football players led by Franz John.
When a congregation of members of MTV 1879 decided on February 27, 1900 that the footballers of the club would not be allowed to join the German Football Association (DFB), eleven members of the football division left the congregation and on the same evening founded FC Bayern Munich.
The deciding match in the 1971-72 season against Schalke 04 was the first match in the new Olympic Stadium, and was also the first live televised match in Bundesliga history.
However, European success was elusive during the decade; Bayern only managed to claim the runners-up spot in the European Cup in 1982 and 1987.Jupp Heynckes was hired as coach in 1987, but after two consecutive championships in 1988-89 and 1989-90 Bayern's form dipped.
In Hitzfeld's first season, Bayern won the Bundesliga and came close to winning the Champions League, losing 2–1 to Manchester United in injury time after leading for most of the match.
A third consecutive Bundesliga title followed in 2001, won in a finish on the final day of the league season.
A season later Bayern won their fourth double, leading the league by a record margin.
Trailing in the league and having lost to Alemannia Aachen in the cup yet again, coach Magath was sacked shortly after the winter break.&lt;/ref&gt;Former Bayern coach Ottmar Hitzfeld returned to Munich in January 2007, but Bayern finished the 2006-07 season fourth, thus failing to qualify for the Champions League for the first time in more than a decade.
Eventually the stadium had a capacity of 63,000 for national matches, and 59,000 for international occasions such as European Cup competitions.
Modification of the stadium proved impossible as the architect Günther Behnisch vetoed major modifications of the stadium.After much discussion the city, the state of Bavaria, FC Bayern, and TSV 1860 jointly decided at the end of 2000 to build a new stadium.
Bayern's main local rival is TSV 1860 Munich, who were the more successful club in the 1960s, winning a cup and a championship.
Bayern München gl:FC Bayern München ko:FC 바이에른 뮌헨 hy:Մյունխենի Բավարիա ՖԱ hr:FC Bayern München id:FC Bayern München it:Fußball-Club Bayern München he:באיירן מינכן ka:ბაიერნი (მიუნხენი) sw:Bayern Munich lv:Bayern München lb:FC Bayern München lt:FC Bayern München hu:FC Bayern München mk:Баерн Минхен mr:एफसे बायर्न म्युन्शन ms:FC Bayern Munich nl:FC Bayern München ja:バイエルン・ミュンヘン no:FC Bayern München nn:FC Bayern München uz:Bavariya Myunxen nds:FC Bayern München pl:Bayern Monachium pt:FC Bayern Munique ro:FC Bayern München ru:Бавария (футбольный клуб, Мюнхен) sq:FC Bayern München simple:F.C.
Bayern Munich sk:Bayern Mníchov sr:Бајерн Минхен sh:FC Bayern München fi:FC Bayern München sv:FC Bayern München vi:FC Bayern München tr:Bayern Münih uk:Баварія (футбольний клуб) zh:拜仁慕尼黑足球俱乐部
