His relationship with the emperor allowed him to pursue a military career that, after minor initial successes, ended in 468, when he led the disastrous Byzantine invasion of Vandal Africa, in one of the largest military operations of Late Antiquity.Basiliscus succeeded in seizing power in 475, exploiting the unpopularity of Emperor Zeno, the "barbarian" successor to Leo, and a plot organised by Verina that had caused Zeno to flee Constantinople.
However, during his short rule, Basiliscus alienated the fundamental support of the Church and the people of Constantinople, promoting the Miaphysite christological position in opposition to the widely accepted Chalcedonian faith.
Also, his policy of securing his power through the appointment of loyal men to key roles antagonised many important figures in the imperial court, including his sister Verina.
So, when Zeno tried to regain his empire, he found virtually no opposition, triumphally entering Constantinople, and capturing and killing Basiliscus and his family.The struggle between Basiliscus and Zeno impeded the intervention of the Eastern Empire in the fall of the Western Roman Empire, which happened in early September 476.
When the chieftain of the Heruli, Odoacer, deposed Western Emperor Romulus Augustus, sending the imperial regalia to Constantinople, Zeno had just regained his throne, and he could only appoint Odoacer dux of Italy, thereby ending the Western Roman Empire.Origins and early careerissued in the name of Aelia Verina, wife and later widow of Emperor Leo I.
As sister of Basiliscus, Verina helped him in both his military and political career &mdash; even if unwillingly supporting his bid for the purple.]]Likely of Balkan origin,Elton.
It is known that Basiliscus had a wife, Zenonis, and at least one son, Marcus.Basiliscus' military career started under Leo I.
In this country Basiliscus led a successful military campaign against the Bulgars in 463.
It is also possible that he attained the rank of patricius in 471/472, for helping Leo to get rid of the Germanic influence in his court, but there is a reference to Basiliscus as patricius earlier, in 468.
However, his rise was soon to meet a serious reversal.Disastrous expedition against the Vandals, in modern Tunisia is the place where the Byzantine fleet led by Basiliscus landed to launch an attack upon the Vandal capital of Carthage.]]In 468, Leo chose Basiliscus as leader of the famous military expedition against Carthage.
The purpose of the operation was to punish the Vandal king Geiseric for the sacking of Rome in 455, in which the former capital of the Western Roman Empire had been overwhelmed, and the Empress Licinia Eudoxia (widow of Emperor Valentinian III) and her daughters had been taken as hostages.The plan was concerted between Eastern Emperor Leo, Western Emperor Anthemius, and General Marcellinus, who enjoyed independence in Illyricum.
Basiliscus was ordered to sail directly to Carthage, while Marcellinus attacked and took Sardinia, and a third army, commanded by Heraclius of Edessa, landed on the Libyan coast east of Carthage, making rapid progress.
Both were enor­mous; Nicephorus Gregoras speaks of one hundred thousand ships, the more reliable Cedrenus says that the fleet that attacked Carthage consisted of eleven hundred and thirteen ships, having each one hun­dred men on board.Georgius Cedrenus, through Smith.
One half of the Roman fleet was burned, sunk, or captured, and the other half followed the fugitive Basilis­cus.
By the mediation of Verina, Basiliscus obtained the imperial pardon, and was punished merely with banishment to Heraclea Sintica, in Thrace.Bury.Rise to powerIn 471 and 472, Basiliscus helped Leo I to get rid of the Germanic influence in his court, helping in the murder of the Alan Magister militum Aspar.
In 474 he received the rank of caput senatus, "first among the senators".At the death of Leo, Zeno, who was a "barbarian" of Isaurian stock, but at the same time son-in-law of Leo, ascended to emperor, after a short reign of his own son Leo II (474).
The "barbarian" origins of the emperor caused antipathy towards Zeno among the people of Constantinople.
Furthermore, the strong Germanic portion of the military, led by Theodoric Strabo, disliked the Isaurian officers that Leo I brought to reduce his dependency on the Ostrogoths.
Finally, Zeno alienated his fellow Isaurian general Illus, who was bribed by Basiliscus.
The uprising, supported by Theodoric Strabo, Illus and Armatus, was successful, and Verina convinced the emperor to leave the city.
Basiliscus was then acclaimed as Augustus on 9 January 475There exists a horoscope made on the day of Basiliscus' coronation —12 January 475, at 9 am—, probably by a supporter of Zeno.
The horoscope, preserved with the horoscopes of other two usurpers of Zeno through Arab sources, correctly predicts the end of Basiliscus' rule in two years.
See however, due to his mismanagement as emperor, Basiliscus quickly lost most of his supporters.RuleCorruption and the fire of ConstantinopleThe most urgent problem facing the new emperor was the scarcity of resources left in the imperial treasury.
He also extorted money from the church, with the help of the Prefect Epinicus, Verina's long-time favourite.Early in his reign, Constantinople suffered a massive fire, which destroyed houses, churches, and completely incinerated the huge library built by Emperor Julian.This library, which was housed within a basilica next to the underground cisterna built by Justinian I, contained 120,000 volumes, including the famous parchment, 35&nbsp;m long, upon which were inscribed Homer's Iliad and Odyssey in golden letters.
According to Candidus, after the death of Patricius, Verina intrigued in favour of Zeno, but her plan was discovered by Basiliscus, and only the intercession of Armatus spared her life.Also, Theodoric Strabo, whose hatred of the Isaurian Zeno had compelled him to support Basiliscus' revolt, left the new emperor's side.
Basiliscus had in fact raised his own nephew Armatus, who was rumoured to be also the lover of Basiliscus' wife, to the rank of magister militum, the same that Strabo held.
However, the Miaphysite position was still strong: the two Miaphysite Patriarchs Timothy Aelurus of Alexandria and Peter Fullo of Antioch were deposed."Pope St.
Simplicius", Catholic Encyclopedia.From the beginning of his rule, Basiliscus showed his support for the Miaysites.
Zacharias Scholasticus reports how a group of Egyptian Miaphysite monks, having heard of Emperor Leo's death, had moved from Alexandria to Constantinople to petition Zeno in favour of Timothy, but at their arrival in the capital, they found the newly elected Basiliscus instead.
The Magister Officiorum Theoctistus, the former physician of Basiliscus, was the brother of one of the monks, so the delegation obtained an audience with Basiliscus, and, with the support of Theoctistus and of the empress, they convinced Basiliscus to recall from exile the banished Miaphysite Patriarchs.Zacharias Scholasticus.Basiliscus re-instated Timothy Aelurus and Peter Fullo to their sees,Samuel.
Zeno, whose original name was Tarasicodissa, was of Isaurian origin, and thus considered a "barbarian" and not loved by the people of Constantinople.
Basiliscus successfully exploited his unpopularity to get the purple for himself, only to become unpopular in his turn, mainly for his religious belief.]]Soon after his elevation, Basiliscus had despatched Illus and his brother Trocundus against Zeno, who, now in his native fortresses, had resumed the life of an Isaurian chieftain.
Because he thought he would have great influence over a restored Zeno, he changed sides and marched with Zeno towards Constantinople in the summer of 476.
Basiliscus, his wife Aelia Zenonis and his son Marcus were sent to a fortress in Cappadocia,Elton refers that the name of the stronghold was Limnae, while Smith has Cucusus, and Evagrius Scholasticus reports Acusus.
