Similarly, francium has the lowest electronegativity of all the known elements at 0.7 on the Pauling scale; caesium has the second-lowest at 0.79.
It was then referred to by the provisional name eka-caesium.Adloff, Jean-Pierre; Kaufman, George B. (2005-09-25).
Research teams attempted to locate and isolate this missing element, and at least four false claims were made that the element had been found before an authentic discovery was made.Erroneous and incomplete discoveriesRussian chemist D.
Druce and Frederick H.
Loring analyzed X-ray photographs of manganese(II) sulfate.
They announced their discovery of element 87 and proposed the name alkalinium, as it would be the heaviest alkali metal.In 1930, Fred Allison of the Alabama Polytechnic Institute claimed to have discovered element 87 when analyzing pollucite and lepidolite using his magneto-optical machine.
Hulubei and Cauchois reported their discovery and proposed the name moldavium, along with the symbol Ml, after Moldavia, the Romanian province where they conducted their work.
In 1937, Hulubei's work was criticized by American physicist F.
Because of this, Jean Baptiste Perrin, Nobel Prize winner and Hulubei's mentor, endorsed moldavium as the true eka-caesium over Marguerite Perey's recently discovered francium.
Perey, however, continuously criticized Hulubei's work until she was credited as the sole discoverer of element 87.===Perey's analysis=== Eka-caesium was discovered in 1939 by Marguerite Perey of the Curie Institute in Paris, France when she purified a sample of actinium-227 which had been reported to have a decay energy of 220&nbsp;keV.
However, Perey noticed decay particles with an energy level below 80&nbsp;keV.
Various tests eliminated the possibility of the unknown element being thorium, radium, lead, bismuth, or thallium.
The new product exhibited chemical properties of an alkali metal (such as coprecipitating with caesium salts), which led Perey to believe that it was element 87, caused by the alpha decay of actinium-227.
Perey then attempted to determine the proportion of beta decay to alpha decay in actinium-227.
Her first test put the alpha branching at 0.6%, a figure which she later revised to 1%.Perey named the new isotope actinium-K (now referred to as francium-223) and in 1946, she proposed the name catium for her newly discovered element, as she believed it to be the most electropositive cation of the elements.
Irène Joliot-Curie, one of Perey's supervisors, opposed the name due to its connotation of cat rather than cation.
This process, developed by Stony Brook Physics, yields francium isotopes with masses of 209, 210, and 211, which are then isolated by the magneto-optic trap (MOT).
Francium-223 is the fifth product of the actinium decay series as the daughter isotope of actinium-227.
Category:Alkali metals Category:Chemical elements ar:فرانسيوم bn:ফ্রান্সিয়াম be:Францый bs:Francijum ca:Franci cs:Francium co:Franciu cy:Ffransiwm da:Francium de:Francium et:Frantsium el:Φράγκιο es:Francio eo:Franciumo eu:Frantzio fa:فرانسیوم fr:Francium fur:Franci ga:Frainciam gv:Frankium gl:Francio ko:프랑슘 hy:Ֆրասիում hr:Francij io:Francio id:Fransium is:Fransín it:Francio he:פרנציום jv:Fransium kn:ಫ್ರಾನ್ಸಿಯಮ್ ka:ფრანციუმი sw:Fransi ht:Fransyòm ku:Fransiyûm la:Francium lv:Francijs lb:Francium lt:Francis jbo:fasysodna hu:Francium ml:ഫ്രാന്‍സിയം ms:Fransium nl:Francium ja:フランシウム no:Francium nn:Francium pl:Frans (pierwiastek) pt:Frâncio ro:Franciu ru:Франций scn:Franciu simple:Francium sk:Francium sl:Francij sr:Францијум sh:Francijum fi:Frankium sv:Francium th:แฟรนเซียม vi:Franxi tr:Fransiyum uk:Францій wa:Franciom zh:钫
