The Arctic pack ice prevents regular marine shipping throughout the year, but climate change is reducing the pack ice, and this Arctic shrinkage may eventually make the waterways more navigable.
The subsequent arrival of the Little Ice Age is thought to be one of the reasons that further European seafaring into the Northwest Passage ceased until the late 15th century.Strait of AniánIn 1539, Hernán Cortés commissioned Francisco de Ulloa to sail along the peninsula of Baja California on the Western coast of America.
As part of another hunt, in July h nm bgbkmth/kbmnh/n,.hm hnySir Humphrey Gilbert, who had written a treatise on the discovery of the passage and was a backer of Frobisher, claimed the territory of Newfoundland for the English crown.
On August 8, 1585 the English explorer John Davis for the first time entered Cumberland Sound, Baffin Island.The major rivers on the east coast were also explored in case they could lead to a transcontinental passage.
The journal of Francisco Antonio Mourelle, who served as Quadra's second in command in 1775, fell into English hands and was translated and published in London.
Initially the Admiralty had wanted Charles Clerke to lead the expedition, with Cook (in retirement following his exploits in the Pacific) acting as a consultant.
However Cook had researched Bering's expeditions, and the Admiralty ultimately placed their faith in the veteran explorer to lead with Clerke accompanying him.After journeying through the Pacific, in another west–east attempt, Cook began at Nootka Sound in April 1777 and headed north along the coastline, charting the lands and searching for the regions sailed by the Russians 40 years previously.
The Admiralty's orders had commanded the expedition to ignore all inlets and rivers until they reached a latitude of 65°N.
Cook, however, failed to make any progress in sighting a Northwestern Passage.Various officers on the expedition including William Bligh, George Vancouver and John Gore thought the existence of a route was 'improbable'.
Before reaching 65°N they found the coastline pushing them further south, but Gore convinced Cook to sail on into the Cook Inlet in the hope of finding the route.
They continued to the limits of the Alaskan peninsula and the start of the thousand-mile chain of Aleutian Islands.
In 1825 Frederick William Beechey explored the north coast of Alaska, discovering Point Barrow.Sir Robert McClure was credited with the discovery of the real Northwest Passage in 1851 when he looked across McClure Strait from Banks Island and viewed Melville Island.
When the ships failed to return, relief expeditions and search parties explored the Canadian Arctic, resulting in final charting of a possible passage.
Traces of the expedition have been found, including notes that indicate that the ships became ice-locked in 1846 near King William Island, about half way through the passage, and were unable to extricate themselves.
Franklin died in 1847 and the last of the party in 1848, after abandoning the ships and attempting to escape overland by sledge.
At the end of this trip, he walked into the city of Eagle, Alaska, and sent a telegram announcing his success.
