Porcupine Tree have an official online store on Burning Shed (also home for OSI, Chroma Key and Roger Eno among others), now the official online distributor to legendary label Peaceville Records, and to Kscope (both Snapper Music divisions).HistoryOrigins (1987-1990)Porcupine Tree originated in 1987 as something of a collaborative hoax between Steven Wilson and Malcolm Stocks.
The underground UK magazine Freakbeat was going through the process of starting their own record company when they received the cassette.
The tape received mild reviews, but Porcupine Tree was soon asked to contribute to a compilation of up-and-coming underground psychedelic artists.
The EP was followed, over the same year, by The Nostalgia Factory, an album that grown Porcupine Tree's underground fanbase, though the band still carried on the charade of being a '70s rock legend.''On the Sunday of Life...'' and ''Up the Downstair'' (1991-1994)The newly formed Feakbeat magazine editor's record label Delerium, agreed to reissue the cassettes Tarquin's Seaweed Farm and The Nostalgia Factory.
By 2000, On the Sunday of Life...
The track was too long to make it a radio hit, but it got good response from the underground music scene of the nineties, reaching the UK independent Top 20 singles list."Voyage 34" was actually a track recorded for another prospective Porcupine Tree double album Up the Downstair.
Working with both camps of one of his favourite teenage bands was a dream come true for Wilson.Also, in late 1997 the band's first three albums were remastered and reissued.
At the time of recording, the band had no record deal, but later that year they signed to the Snapper/K-Scope label and in March 1999, the new album, Stupid Dream, was issued.
A sold out show at the Scala in London began a short run of UK shows, to be followed later in the year by European festival dates and a major tour supporting Dream Theater.
A special double CD edition of the Lightbulb Sun album was issued in Israel and Germany, and in May, Recordings, a limited edition collection of EP tracks and out-takes from the previous two albums, was released as the band's final release under their Snapper/K-Scope contract.
These reissues included re-recorded/remixed double CD versions of the Up the Downstair, The Sky Moves Sideways and Signify albums, and the reissue of Stupid Dream and Lightbulb Sun, both comprising a CD with a new stereo mix of the album plus a DVD-A with a 5.1 surround mix.''Deadwing'' and ''Arriving Somewhere'' DVD (2004-2006)In early 2004 the band embarked on the recording sessions for an ambitious new Porcupine Tree album, Deadwing, their second for Lava/Atlantic.
