Hardy had been on World Wrestling Federation (WWF) television as a jobber as early as age sixteen.
His first WWF match was against Razor Ramon on May 24, 1994.
The brothers and their friends then began to work for other independent companies.
in his Funkin' Dojo with other notable wrestlers such as Kurt Angle, Christian, Test, and A-Train.
While feuding with The Brood in mid-1999, they added Michael Hayes as their manager.
On July 5, they won their first WWF Tag Team Championship by defeating the Acolytes, but lost it back to them a month later.
After the dissolution of the Brood, the Hardys joined forces with Gangrel as the The New Brood and feuded with Edge and Christian.
This stable did not last long, however, and on October 17, 1999 at No Mercy, the Hardy Boyz won the managerial services of Terri Runnels in the finals of the Terri Invitational Tournament in the WWF's first ever tag team ladder match against Edge and Christian.In 2000, the Hardy Boyz found a new manager in their real-life friend Lita.
At the end of 2001, the Hardys began a storyline in which they began to fight, which led to Matt demanding a match at Vengeance, with Lita as special guest referee.
After Hardy beat Matt at Vengeance, while Matt's foot was on the ropes, Hardy and Lita began feuding against Matt.
In the middle of the feud, however, Hardy faced The Undertaker in a Hardcore Title match and lost.
The Hardys and Lita were not seen again until the Royal Rumble, because WWE did not have another storyline for their characters.
The Hardys later came back as a team, and there was never any mention of their previous storyline split.In early April 2002, the Hardy Boyz began a feud with Brock Lesnar after Lesnar gave Matt an F-5 on the steel entrance ramp, which led to an angered Hardy seeking revenge on Lesnar.
Hardy competed for singles titles on several occasions and defeated William Regal for the WWE European Championship.
Hardy was defeated a few weeks later by Rob Van Dam in a match to unify the European Championship and the Intercontinental Championship, and the European Championship was dropped.
It ended a month later when he saved Stacy Keibler from an attack by then-heel, Christian.
Then in storyline, Hardy hooked up with Trish Stratus after saving her from Steven Richards and Victoria in March.
Hardy, however, was released from WWE on April 22, 2003.
The match ended in a no-contest when Kid Kash and Dallas interfered.
In October 2004, he won a tournament, earning a shot at the NWA World Heavyweight Championship on November 7 at Victory Road.
Hardy returned the favor by defeating Abyss in a Falls Count Anywhere match at Destination X in March.
Hardy then went on to feud with Raven, with Hardy booked to defeat Raven in a steel cage match at Lockdown in April.
Hardy was suspended from TNA after no-showing his "Clockwork Orange House of Fun" rematch with Raven at Hard Justice on May 15, allegedly due to travel difficulties.
He wrestled his first TNA match in four months at Unbreakable on September 11, losing to Bobby Roode following interference from Jarrett.
In the course of the match, Hardy delivered a Swanton Bomb to Abyss from a height of approximately seventeen feet (5.18 m).
The Hardys, however, dropped the titles to Cade and Murdoch on June 4 on Raw.
This reignited the feud between the two, and they met in a Falls Count Anywhere match at One Night Stand, which Hardy won.On June 23, 2008, Hardy was drafted from the Raw brand to the SmackDown brand, as a part of the 2008 WWE Draft.
