Finally, Hitler used the purge to go against critics of his regime, especially those loyal to Vice-Chancellor Franz von Papen, and to settle scores with old enemies.At least 85 people died during the purge, although the final death toll may have been in the hundreds,Evans (2005), p. 39. "At least eighty-five people are known to have been summarily killed without any formal legal proceedings being taken against them.
It also provided a legal grounding for the Nazi regime, as the German courts and cabinet quickly swept aside centuries of legal prohibition against extra-judicial killings to demonstrate their loyalty to the regime.Before its execution, its planners sometimes referred to it as "Hummingbird" (German: ), as that was the codeword used to set the execution squads in motion on the day of the purge.Kershaw, Hitler, (1999), p. 515.
While many officers were impressed by Hitler's promises of an expanded army, a return to conscription, and a more aggressive foreign policy, the army continued to guard its traditions of independence during the early years of the Nazi regime.To a lesser extent, the (SA), a Nazi paramilitary organization, remained somewhat autonomous within the party itself.
Max Heydebreck, an SA leader in Rummelsburg, denounced the army to his fellow brownshirts, telling them, "Some of the officers of the army are swine.
Limited by the Treaty of Versailles to one hundred thousand soldiers, army leaders watched anxiously as membership in the SA surpassed three million men by the beginning of 1934.
After Hitler and most of the army officers had left, however, Röhm declared that he would not take instructions from "the ridiculous corporal" – a demeaning reference to Hitler.Evans (2005), p. 26.
By the spring of 1934, this vision directly conflicted with Hitler's plan to consolidate power and expand the Reichswehr.
He left Neudeck with the intention of both destroying Röhm, and settling scores with old enemies.
Both Heines and his partner were shot on the spot in the hotel grounds on the personal order of Hitler.
This included Vice-Chancellor Papen and those in his immediate circle.
Gestapo officers attached to the SS unit shot Papen's secretary Herbert von Bose without bothering to arrest him first.
The Gestapo also murdered Erich Klausener, the leader of Catholic Action, and a close Papen associate.
Germany's legal establishment further capitulated to the regime when the country's leading legal scholar, Carl Schmitt, wrote an article defending Hitler's July 13 speech.
Hitler expressly told him to stop SA funds from being spent on limousines and banquets, which he considered evidence of SA extravagance.
