Donald is one of a number of characters who are giving performances in a benefit for Mickey's Orphans.
He also began starring in solo cartoons, the first of which was the January 9, 1937 Ben Sharpsteen cartoon, Don Donald.
Donald's nephews, Huey, Dewey and Louie, would make their first animated appearance a year later in the April 15, 1938 film, Donald's Nephews, directed by Jack King (they had been earlier introduced in the Donald Duck comic strip by Al Taliaferro, see below).
It is no coincidence that the same era that saw the birth and rise of Bugs Bunny also saw Donald Duck's popularity soar.
At the end of the short Donald looks to the Statue of Liberty and the American flag with renewed appreciation.
According to it Donald has flat feet and is unable to distinguish between the colors green and blue, which is a type of color blindness.
Since this cost Disney a lot of money, he decided to create a new audience for his films in South America.
Anselmo's voice is heard for the first time in Who Framed Roger Rabbit.
In this movie, Donald has a piano duel scene with the Warner Brothers duck Daffy Duck.Donald has since appeared in a lot of different television shows and (short) animated movies.
He tragically believes that Daisy has been lost, while she believes the same of him, but they are reunited at the end.
This scene can be found on the Chicken Little DVD.Donald also played an important role in Mickey Mouse Works and House of Mouse.
For the next few years, Donald made a few more appearances in Disney-themed strips, and by 1936, he had grown to be one of the most popular characters in the Silly Symphonies comic strip.
Barks would later repeat the treasure-hunting theme in many more stories.Barks soon took over the major development of the comic-book version of the duck as both writer and illustrator.
They also introduced numerous new characters who are today well known in Europe.
He has his own studio where he and his assistants draw the stories sent in by Egmont.
