Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters 
between the European Community and the Republic of Chile concerning amendment of Appendix I to the Agreement on trade in spirits drinks and aromatised drinks of the Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part 
LETTER No 1 
Letter from the European Community 
Brussels, 30 November 2004 
Sir, 
I have the honour to refer to meetings related to technical adaptations which have been held under Article 16(2) of the Agreement on trade in spirit drinks and aromatised drinks of the Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, of 18 November 2002, which provides that the Contracting Parties may, by mutual consent, amend this Agreement. 
As you are already aware the enlargement of the European Union took place on 1 May 2004. Therefore, in this context it is necessary to make technical adaptations to Appendix I, Section A (List of protected designations for spirit drinks originating in the Community) of the above-mentioned Agreement, in order to include the recognition and protection of designations for spirit drinks of the new Member States with a view to be applied by the Parties with effect from 1 May 2004. 
I have therefore the honour to propose that Appendix I, Section A to the Agreement on trade in spirit drinks and aromatised drinks of the Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, be replaced by the Appendix attached hereto, with effect as of 1 May 2004, i.e. the date of entry into force of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia. 
I should be obliged if you would confirm that your Government is in agreement with the contents of this letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
On behalf of the European Community 
Mariann Fischer Boel 
LETTER No 2 
Letter from Chile 
Brussels, 30 November 2004 
Madam, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of 30 November 2004 which reads as follows: 
"I have the honour to refer to meetings related to technical adaptations which have been held under Article 16(2) of the Agreement on trade in spirit drinks and aromatised drinks of the Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, of 18 November 2002, which provides that the Contracting Parties may, by mutual consent, amend this Agreement. 
As you are already aware the enlargement of the European Union took place on 1 May 2004. Therefore, in this context it is necessary to make technical adaptations to Appendix I, Section A (List of protected designations for spirit drinks originating in the Community) of the above-mentioned Agreement, in order to include the recognition and protection of designations for spirit drinks of the new Member States with a view to be applied by the Parties with effect from 1 May 2004. 
I have therefore the honour to propose that Appendix I, Section A to the Agreement on trade in spirit drinks and aromatised drinks of the Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, be replaced by the Appendix attached hereto, with effect as of 1 May 2004, i.e. the date of entry into force of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia. 
I should be obliged if you would confirm that your Government is in agreement with the contents of this letter." 
I have the honour to inform you that the Republic of Chile is in agreement with the content of this letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
On behalf of the Republic of Chile 
Alberto van Klaveren 
-------------------------------------------------- 
