Agreement 
between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation amending the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation of 22 July 1972 as regards the provisions applicable to processed agricultural products 
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, hereinafter referred to as "the Community", 
of the one part, and 
THE SWISS CONFEDERATION, hereinafter referred to as "Switzerland", 
of the other part, 
hereinafter together referred to as "the Contracting Parties", 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
The Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 
1. Annex I to the Agreement shall be replaced by the new Annex I which is attached to this Agreement as Annex 1. 
2. Protocol 2 to the Agreement shall replaced by the new Protocol 2, which is attached to this Agreement as Annex 2. 
Article 2 
The following agreements shall be repealed with effect from the entry into force of this Agreement: 
- Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on Protocol 2 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation, of 17 March 2000, 
- Exchange of letters between the European Commission and the Swiss Federal Administration on arrangements designed to improve transparency in the various price compensation measures applied by the European Community and Switzerland which affect trade in processed agricultural products covered by Protocol 2, of 29 November 1988. 
Article 3 
The Annexes to this Agreement, including tables and appendices to the tables and the appendix to Protocol 2, shall form an integral part hereof. 
Article 4 
1. This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories to which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of Switzerland. 
2. This Agreement shall also apply to the territory of the Principality of Liechtenstein as long as the customs union with Switzerland is maintained. 
Article 5 
1. This Agreement shall be approved by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their own procedures. It shall enter into force on the day following the day on which the Contracting Parties have notified each other of the completion of their internal procedures necessary to this end. 
2. Pending the completion of the ratification procedures referred to in paragraph 1, the Contracting Parties shall apply this Agreement from the first day of the fourth month following the date of the signature, provided that the implementing measures as defined in Article 5(4) of Protocol 2 are adopted at the same date. 
Article 6 
1. This Agreement shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish and Swedish languages, each text being equally authentic. 
2. The Maltese language version shall be authenticated by the Contracting Parties on the basis of an Exchange of Letters. It shall also be authentic, in the same way as for the languages referred to in paragraph 1. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, have hereunto set their hands. 
Hecho en Luxemburgo, el veintiséis de octubre de dos mil cuatro. 
V Lucemburku dne dvacátého šestého října dva tisíce čtyři. 
Udfærdiget i Luxembourg den seksogtyvende oktober to tusind og fire. 
Geschehen zu Luxemburg am sechsundzwanzigsten Oktober zweitausendundvier. 
Kahe tuhande neljanda aasta oktoobrikuu kahekümne kuuendal päeval Luxembourgis. 
Έγινε στo Λουξεμβούργο, στις είκοσι έξι Οκτωβρίου δύο χιλιάδες τέσσερα. 
Done at Luxembourg on the twenty-sixth day of October in the year two thousand and four. 
Fait à Luxembourg, le vingt-six octobre deux mille quatre. 
Fatto a Lussemburgo, addì ventisei ottobre duemilaquattro. 
Luksemburgā, divi tūkstoši ceturtā gada divdesmit sestajā oktobrī. 
Priimta du tūkstančiai ketvirtų metų spalio dvidešimt šeštą dieną Liuksemburge. 
Kelt Luxembourgban, a kettőezer negyedik év október havának huszonhatodik napján. 
Magħmula fil-Lussemburgu fis-sitta u għoxrin jum ta' Ottubru tas-sena elfejn u erbgħa. 
Gedaan te Luxemburg, de zesentwintigste oktober tweeduizendvier. 
Sporządzono w Luksemburgu w dniu dwudziestym szóstym października roku dwutysięcznego czwartego. 
Feito no Luxemburgo, em vinte e seis de Outubro de dois mil e quatro. 
V Luxemburgu dvadsiateho šiesteho októbra dvetisícštyri. 
V Luxembourgu, dne šestindvajsetega oktobra leta dva tisoč štiri. 
Tehty Luxemburgissa kahdentenakymmenentenäkuudentena päivänä lokakuuta vuonna kaksituhattaneljä. 
Som skedde i Luxemburg den tjugosjätte oktober tjugohundrafyra. 
Por la Comunidad Europea 
Za Evropské společenství 
For Det Europæiske Fællesskab 
Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft 
Euroopa Ühenduse nimel 
Για την Eυρωπαϊκή Koινóτητα 
For the European Community 
Pour la Communauté européenne 
Per la Comunità europea 
Eiropas Kopienas vārdā 
Europos bendrijos vardu 
Az Európai Közösség részéről 
Għall-Komunità Ewropea 
Voor de Europese Gemeenschap 
W imieniu Wspólnoty Europejskiej 
Pela Comunidade Europeia 
Za Európske spoločenstvo 
Za Evropsko skupnost 
Euroopan yhteisön puolesta 
På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar 
Für die Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft 
Pour la Confédération suisse 
Per la Confederazione svizzera 
-------------------------------------------------- 
