Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No&amp;nbsp;24/2005 of 8&amp;nbsp;February 2005 amending the rules of procedure of the EEA Joint Committee 
Decision of the EEA Joint Committee 
No 24/2005 
of 8 February 2005 
amending the rules of procedure of the EEA Joint Committee 
THE EEA JOINT COMMITTEE, 
Having regard to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as adjusted by the Protocol Adjusting the Agreement on the European Economic Area, hereinafter referred to as the Agreement, and in particular Article 92(3) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) The Rules of Procedure of the EEA Joint Committee were adopted by Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No 1/94 of 8 February 1994 [1]. 
(2) Following the Act concerning the conditions of accession of the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden and the adjustments to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded [2], the texts of the EC acts to be integrated into Annexes to the Agreement are drawn up in the Finnish and Swedish languages by the European Union and the Decisions of the EEA Joint Committee amending Annexes or Protocols to the Agreement in the Finnish and Swedish language are published in the EEA Section of the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(3) Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Nice [3], the Official Journal of the European Communities is now known as the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(4) Following the Agreement on the participation of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic in the European Economic Area ("EEA Enlargement Agreement") [4] which was signed on 14 October 2003 in Luxemburg, the list of languages of the Agreement need to be adjusted accordingly. 
(5) As the EEA Enlargement Agreement has not yet entered into force, but is applicable on a provisional basis, this Decision will, pending the entry into force of the EEA Enlargement Agreement, apply provisionally as well, 
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
1. The text of Article 6(2) shall be replaced by the following: 
"The texts of the EC acts to be integrated into Annexes to the Agreement in accordance with Article 102(1) are equally authentic in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages as published in the Official Journal of the European Union. They shall be drawn up in the Icelandic and Norwegian languages and shall be authenticated by the EEA Joint Committee together with the relevant decisions referred to in paragraph 1." 
2. The text of Article 11(1) shall be replaced by the following: 
"Decisions of the EEA Joint Committee amending Annexes or Protocols to the Agreement shall be published in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages in the EEA Section of the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Icelandic and Norwegian languages in the EEA Supplement thereto." 
Article 2 
This Decision shall take effect on the date of its adoption. 
Article 3 
This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. 
Done at Brussels, 8 February 2005. 
For the EEA Joint Committee 
The President 
Richard Wright 
[1] OJ L 85, 30.3.1994, p. 60. 
[2] OJ C 241, 29.8.1994, p. 21 as amended by OJ L 1, 1.1.1995, p. 1. 
[3] OJ C 80, 10.3.2001, p. 26. 
[4] OJ L 130, 29.4.2004, p. 3. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
