Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters on the provisional application of the Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the Coast of Gabon for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011 
Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters 
on the provisional application of the Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the Coast of Gabon for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011 
A. Letter from the Government of Gabon 
Sir, 
With reference to the Protocol, initialled on Friday 28 October 2005, setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011, I have the honour to inform you that Gabon is willing to apply the Protocol provisionally from 3 December 2005 pending its entry into force in accordance with Article 13 thereof, provided that the European Community is prepared to do likewise. 
This is on the understanding that the first instalment of the financial contribution, laid down by Article 2 of the Protocol, must be paid before 30 September 2006. 
I should be grateful if you would confirm the agreement of the European Community to such a provisional application. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Government of Gabon 
B. Letter from the European Community 
Sir, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date which reads as follows: 
"With reference to the Protocol, initialled on Friday 28 October 2005, setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011, I have the honour to inform you that Gabon is willing to apply the Protocol provisionally from 3 December 2005 pending its entry into force in accordance with Article 13 thereof, provided that the European Community is prepared to do likewise. 
This is on the understanding that the first instalment of the financial contribution, laid down by Article 2 of the Protocol, must be paid before 30 September 2006." 
I am pleased to confirm the agreement of the European Community to a provisional application. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Council of the European Union 
-------------------------------------------------- 
