Protocol on veterinary matters supplementing the Agreement between the European Community, of the one part, and the Government of Denmark and the Home Government of the Faroe Islands, of the other part 
PROTOCOL ON VETERINARY MATTERS 
supplementing the Agreement between the European Community, of the one part, and the Government of Denmark and the Home Government of the Faroe Islands, of the other part 
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, 
of the one part, and 
THE GOVERNMENT OF DENMARK AND THE HOME GOVERNMENT OF THE FAROE ISLANDS, 
of the other part, 
Having regard to the Agreement between the European Community, of the one part, and the Government of Denmark and the Home Government of the Faroe Islands, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 6 December 1996 (the %quot%Agreement%quot%), 
Recalling the desire to consolidate and extend the economic relations existing between the European Community and the Faroe Islands and to ensure, with due regard to fair conditions of competition, the harmonious development of trade between the Parties, 
Recalling the commitment of the Parties to apply their rules in veterinary matters in a non-discriminatory fashion and not to introduce any new measures that have the effect of unduly obstructing trade, 
Reaffirming their commitment to the rights and obligations established pursuant to the WTO Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, 
Desiring to ensure that trade in live animals and animal products between the Community and the Faroe Islands is conducted in a manner that safeguards public and animal health, 
(1) Whereas, to this end, such trade is to be conducted in compliance with Community veterinary rules; 
(2) Whereas the Agreement should, accordingly, be supplemented by this Protocol, 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
The Faroe Islands undertake to apply Community veterinary rules in respect of the following: 
I. Preventive measures/notification of diseases, 
II. Animal health: trade and placing on the market (except as regards third countries' rules which are referred to in point VI), 
III. Animal health protective measures for animal health products (except as regards third countries' rules which are referred to in point VI), 
IV. Public health protective measures: rules governing placing on the market (except as regards third countries' rules which are referred to in point VI), 
V. Hormones, residues, BST, zoonoses, animal residues, medicated feed, 
VI. Imports from third countries, 
VII. Inspection, animal identification, mutual assistance, 
VIII. Zootechnics (including provisions in respect of third countries), 
IX. Animal welfare, 
X. Institutional matters. 
Article 2 
A list of the Community veterinary provisions to be applied by the Faroe Islands, and conditions for the application of these provisions, shall be drawn up by the Joint Committee set up under Article 31 of the Agreement. 
A veterinary sub-group shall be set up under the Joint Committee. It shall periodically examine the situation concerning Community law applicable to the Faroe Islands. If necessary, the sub-group shall make recommendations to the Joint Committee with a view to amending or updating the legislation in question. 
Article 3 
This Protocol shall form an integral part of the Agreement. 
Article 4 
This Protocol shall be approved by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their own procedures. It shall enter into force on the first day of the month following notification of the completion of such procedures by the Contracting Parties. 
Article 5 
This Protocol is drawn up in two copies in the Danish, Dutch, English, Faroese, French, Finnish, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish languages, each text being equally authentic. 
