Exchange of Letters concerning the extension of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Union and the Government of Indonesia on the tasks, status, privileges and immunities of the European Union Monitoring Mission in Aceh (Indonesia) (Aceh Monitoring Mission %mdash% AMM) and its personnel 
Exchange of Letters 
concerning the extension of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Union and the Government of Indonesia on the tasks, status, privileges and immunities of the European Union Monitoring Mission in Aceh (Indonesia) (Aceh Monitoring Mission â&#x20AC;&#x201D; AMM) and its personnel 
A. Letter from the Government of the Republic of Indonesia 
Jakarta, 5 May 2006 
Dear Excellency, 
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, I would like to express my appreciation to the European Union for its participation in the Aceh Monitoring Mission (AMM) and for its remarkable works that have been carried out since its deployment in the Province of Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD). 
At this juncture, I have the honour to refer to the letter and its Annexes of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia ad interim dated 14 September 2005 and your letter and its Annexes dated 3 October 2005 regarding the tasks, status, privileges and immunities of the Aceh Monitoring Mission (AMM) and the letter of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia dated 13 February 2006 and your reply dated 28 February 2006 regarding the extension of the European Union's presence in NAD until 15 June 2006. 
In that regard, I have the honour to convey to you the decision of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia to another time invite the European Union to extend its presence in NAD for a period from 16 June 2006 until 15 September 2006. 
The status, privileges and immunities of the AMM will be identical to those stipulated in our exchange of letters respectively dated 14 September 2005 and 3 October 2005 constituting legally binding instrument between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia and the European Union. 
The works of the AMM during this period will include the tasks of AMM as stipulated in Article 5.2 of the Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia and the Free Aceh Movement 15 August 2005, except tasks (a) and (b) that have been completed. 
If the foregoing proposal is acceptable to the European Union, I have further the honour to propose that this letter as well as your affirmative letter in reply together constitute a legally binding instrument between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia and the European Union. This instrument shall enter into force on 16 June 2006 and be terminated on 15 September 2006. For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia this legal framework is based on Indonesian Law No 2 of 1982 dated 25 January 1982 concerning the Ratification of Convention on Special Mission, 1969. 
I believe that the constructive cooperation that has been established, with a view to providing a peaceful, comprehensive and sustainable solution to the challenges facing Aceh, within the framework of the Unitary State of the Republic of Indonesia, can be further sustained and strengthened. 
I look forward to your positive consideration. 
Yours sincerely, 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Dr. N. Hassan Wirajuda 
B. Letter from the European Union 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Brussels, 
Dear Excellency, 
I have the honour to refer to your letter of 5 May 2006 in which you convey to us the decision of the Government of the Republic of Indonesia to invite the European Union to extend its presence in the Province of Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam (NAD) for a period of three months from 16 June 2006 until 15 September 2006. 
I am pleased to confirm to you that the European Union has agreed to respond positively to this invitation. 
I confirm that, in accordance with the terms of our exchange of letters respectively dated 14 September 2005 and 3 October 2005 constituting a legally binding instrument between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia and the European Union, this instrument will be extended until 15 September 2006. 
The work of the AMM during this period will include the tasks of the AMM as stipulated in Article 5.2 of the Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of Indonesia and the Free Aceh Movement of 15 August 2005, except tasks (a) and (b) which have been completed. 
I have further the honour to confirm that your letter and this letter in reply constitute a legally binding instrument between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia and the European Union. This instrument shall enter into force on 16 June 2006 and be terminated on 15 September 2006. 
May I once more take this opportunity to record the EU's appreciation of the progress made in the Aceh peace process and to reaffirm the European Union's continued commitment to supporting the development of a peaceful, comprehensive and sustainable solution to the challenges facing Aceh. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
Yours sincerely, 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Javier Solana 
-------------------------------------------------- 
