Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States,of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus,the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia,and the Slovak Republic to the European Union 
Additional Protocol 
to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States,of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus,the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia,and the Slovak Republic to the European Union 
THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, 
THE CZECH REPUBLIC, 
THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK, 
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, 
THE HELLENIC REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, 
THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, 
THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, 
IRELAND, 
THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS, 
THE REPUBLIC OF LATVIA, 
THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, 
THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG, 
THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY, 
THE REPUBLIC OF MALTA, 
THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, 
THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA, 
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND, 
THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, 
THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC, 
THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND, 
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, 
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, 
hereinafter referred to as the "Member States", 
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, 
hereinafter referred to as the "Community", 
and 
THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE, hereinafter referred to as "Chile", 
WHEREAS the Agreement establishing an association between the Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement", was signed in Brussels on 18 November 2002 and some of its provisions have been applied pursuant to Article 198(3) thereof since 1 February 2003; 
WHEREAS the Treaty concerning the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic (hereinafter referred to as the new Member States) to the European Union (hereinafter referred to as Treaty of Accession) was signed in Athens on 16 April 2003 and entered into force on 1 May 2004, 
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
SECTION I 
CONTRACTING PARTIES 
Article 1 
The Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic hereby become Contracting Parties to the Agreement. 
SECTION II 
TRADE IN GOODS 
Article 2 
Annex I to the Agreement is hereby amended in accordance with the provisions contained in Annex I to this Protocol, in order to add the tariff quotas indicated in Section 1 of Annex I to the Agreement. 
SECTION III 
RULES OF ORIGIN 
Article 3 
Articles 17(4) and 18(2) of Annex III to the Agreement are hereby amended in accordance with the provisions of Annex II to this Protocol. 
Article 4 
Appendix III of Annex III to the Agreement shall be replaced by Annex III to this Protocol. 
Article 5 
Appendix IV toAnnex III to the Agreement shall be replaced by Annex IV to this Protocol. 
Article 6 
1. The provisions of the Agreement shall be applied to goods exported from either Chile to one of the new Member States or from one of the new Member States to Chile, which comply with the provisions of Annex III to the Agreement and that on the date of accession are either en route or in temporary storage, in a customs warehouse or in a free zone in Chile or in such new Member State. 
2. Preferential treatment shall be granted in such cases, subject to the submission to the customs authorities of the importing country, within four months of the date of accession, of a proof of origin issued retrospectively by the customs authorities or competent governmental authority of the exporting country. 
SECTION IV 
TRADE IN SERVICES AND ESTABLISHMENT 
Article 7 
Part A of Annex VII to the Agreement shall be replaced by the provisions of Annex V to this Protocol. 
Article 8 
Part A of Annex VIII to the Agreement shall be replaced by the provisions of Annex VI to this Protocol. 
Article 9 
Part A of Annex IX to the Agreement shall be replaced by the information provided in Annex VII to this Protocol. 
Article 10 
Part A of Annex X to the Agreement shall be replaced by the provisions of Annex VIII to this Protocol. 
SECTION V 
GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
Article 11 
1. The entities of the new Member States listed in Annex IX to this Protocol shall be added to the relevant sections of Annex XI to the Agreement. 
2. The list of publication means of the new Member States listed in Annex X to this Protocol, shall be added to Appendix 2 of Annex XIII to the Agreement. 
SECTION VI 
WTO 
Article 12 
Chile undertakes not to make any claim, request or referral nor to modify or withdraw any concession pursuant to GATT 1994 Articles XXIV.6 and XXVIII or GATS Article XXI in relation to the accession of the new Member States to the European Union. 
SECTION VII 
GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS 
Article 13 
1. This Protocol shall be concluded by the Community, by the Council of the European Union on behalf of the Member States and by Chile, in accordance with their respective internal procedures. 
2. This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the first month following that in which all the Contracting Parties have notified each other of the completion of the procedures necessary for this purpose, or on the date of entry into force of the Agreement, whichever is the later. 
3. Notwithstanding paragraph 2, the Community and Chile agree to apply provisionally Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 and 12 of this Protocol, from the date of signature of this Protocol. Article 2 shall be applied with effect from 1 May 2004. 
4. Notifications shall be sent to the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union, who shall be the depository of this Protocol. 
5. Where a provision of this Protocol is applied by the Contracting Parties pending its entry into force, any reference in such a provision to the date of entry into force of this Protocol shall be understood to refer to the date from which those Parties agree to apply that provision, in accordance with paragraph 3. 
Article 14 
This Protocol shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic. 
The Community shall communicate within three months from the signature of this Protocol to Chile the Czech, Estonian, Hungarian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Slovak and Slovene language versions of the Agreement. Subject to the entry into force of this Protocol, the new language versions shall become authentic under the same conditions as those drawn up in the present languages of this Protocol. 
Artilce 15 
This Protocol shall form an integral part of the Agreement. The Annexes to this Protocol shall form an integral part thereof. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX I 
Amendments to Community Tariff Elimination Schedule 
1. The Community shall allow duty free importation of the following products and quantities with an increase by 5 % each year of the quantity. 
CN code | Description | Quantity | 
07032000 | Garlic | 30 tons | 
ex08061010 | Grapes (1/1 to 14/7) | 1500 tons | 
08105000 | Kiwi | 1000 tons | 
2. The Community shall allow duty free importation of the following products and quantities. 
CN code | Description | Quantity [1] | 
03032900 | Other frozen fish excluding fillets | 725 tons | 
03037812 | Argentine hake | 
03037819 | Hake — other | 
03042053 | Frozen fillets of mackerel | 
03042056 | Frozen fillets of argentine hake | 
03042058 | Frozen fillets of other hake | 
03042091 | Frozen fillets of blue grenadier | 
03042095 | Other frozen fillets | 
03049005 | Surimi | 
CN code | Description | Quantity [2] | 
16041519 | Prepared or preserved mackerel | 90 tons | 
[1] This tariff quota will apply for 2004 and each calendar year thereafter beginning 1 January 2005 until its expiry on 31 December 2012. 
[2] This tariff quota will apply for 2004 and each calendar year thereafter beginning 1 January 2005 until its expiry on 31 December 2006. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX II 
New language versions of administrative remarks contained in Annex III to the Association Agreement 
1. Article 17(4) shall be amended to read: 
(...) 
Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively must be endorsed with one of the following phrases: 
ES "EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI" 
CS "VYSTAVENO DODATEČNĚ" 
DA "UDSTEDT EFTERFØLGENDE" 
DE "NACHTRÄGLICH AUSGESTELLT" 
ET "VÄLJA ANTUD TAGASIULATUVALT" 
EL "ΕΚΔΟΘΕΝ ΕΚ ΤΩΝ ΥΣΤΕΡΩΝ" 
EN "ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY" 
FR "DÉLIVRÉ A POSTERIORI" 
IT "RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI" 
LV "IZSNIEGTS RETROSPEKTĪVI" 
LT "RETROSPEKTYVUSIS IŠDAVIMAS" 
HU "KIADVA VISSZAMENŐLEGES HATÁLLYAL" 
MT "MAHRUG RETROSPETTIVAMENT" 
NL "AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI" 
PL "WYSTAWIONE RETROSPEKTYWNIE" 
PT "EMITIDO A POSTERIORI" 
SL "IZDANO NAKNADNO" 
SK "VYDANÉ DODATOČNE" 
FI "ANNETTU JÄLKIKÄTEEN" 
SV "UTFÄRDAT I EFTERHAND" 
2. Article 18(2) shall be amended to read: 
(...) 
The duplicate issued in this way must be endorsed with one of the following words: 
ES "DUPLICADO" 
CS "DUPLIKÁT" 
DA "DUPLIKAT" 
DE "DUPLIKAT" 
ET "DUPLIKAAT" 
EL "ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ" 
EN "DUPLICATE" 
FR "DUPLICATA" 
IT "DUPLICATO" 
LV "DUBLIKĀTS" 
LT "DUBLIKATAS" 
HU "MÁSODLAT" 
MT "DUPLIKAT" 
NL "DUPLICAAT" 
PL "DUPLIKAT" 
PT "SEGUNDA VIA" 
SL "DVOJNIK" 
SK "DUPLIKÁT" 
FI "KAKSOISKAPPALE" 
SV "DUPLIKAT" 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX III 
"Appendix III 
Specimen of movement certificate eur.1. and Application for a movement certificate eur.1 
Printing instructions 
1. Each form shall measure 210 x 297 mm; a tolerance of up to minus 5 mm or plus 8 mm in the length may be allowed. The paper used must be white, sized for writing, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m2. It shall have a printed green guilloche pattern background making any falsification by mechanical or chemical means apparent to the eye. 
2. The customs authorities or the competent governmental authorities of the Member States of the Community and of Chile may reserve the right to print the forms themselves or may have them printed by approved printers. In the latter case, each form must include a reference to such approval. Each form must bear the name and address of the printer or a mark by which the printer can be identified. It shall also bear a serial number, either printed or not, by which it can be identified. 
Procedure for completion 
The exporter or his authorised representative shall fill out both the movement certificate EUR.1. and the application form. These forms shall be completed in one of the languages in which this Agreement is drawn up and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting country. If they are handwritten, they shall be completed in ink in printed characters. The description of the products must be given in the box reserved for this purpose without leaving any blank lines. Where the box is not completely filled, a horizontal line must be drawn below the last line of the description, the empty space being crossed through. 
MOVEMENT CERTIFICATE 
1. Exporter (name, full address, country) 
EUR.1 
No A 
000.000 
See notes overleaf before completing this form 
2. Certificate used in preferential trade between 
and 
(insert appropriate countries, group of countries or territories) 
3. Consignee (name, full address, country) (Optional) 
4. Country, group of 
countries or territory in which the products are considered as originating 
5. Country, group of countries or territory of destination 
6. Transport details (Optional) 
7. Remarks 
8. Item number; marks and numbers; number and kind of packages; description of goods 
9. Gross mass (kg) or other measure (litres, m3, etc.) 
10. Invoices 
(Optional) 
11. CUSTOMS OR COMPETENT GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY ENDORSEMENT 
Declaration certified stamp 
Export document (): 
Form No 
Customs or competent governmental office: 
Issuing country or territory: 
Place and date …………………………. 
............................................................... 
(Signature) 
12. DECLARATION BY THE EXPORTER 
I, the undersigned, declare that the goods described above meet the conditions required for the issue of this certificate. 
Place and date ......................................... 
............................................................ 
(Signature) 
If goods are not packed, indicate number of articles or state "in bulk" as appropriate. 
It may include the tariff classification of the goods at a heading (four digits code) level. 
Complete only where the regulations of the exporting country or territory require. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
13. REQUEST FOR VERIFICATION, to: 
14. RESULT OF VERIFICATION 
Verification carried out shows that this certificate 
-was issued by the customs office or the competent governmental authority indicated and that the information contained therein is accurate. 
Verification of the authenticity and accuracy of this certificate is requested 
............................................................................ 
(Place and date) 
Stamp 
........................................................... 
(Signature) 
-does not meet the requirements as to authenticity and accuracy (see remarks appended). 
........................................................................... 
(Place and date) 
Stamp 
........................................................... 
(Signature) 
Insert X in the appropriate box. 
NOTES 
1.The certificate must not contain erasures or words written over one another. Any alterations must be made by deleting the incorrect particulars and adding any necessary corrections. Any such alteration must be initialled by the person who completed the certificate and endorsed by the customs authorities or the competent governmental authority of the issuing country or territory. 
2.No spaces must be left between the items entered on the certificate and each item must be preceded by an item number. A horizontal line must be drawn immediately below the last item. Any unused space must be struck through in such a manner as to make any later additions impossible. 
3.Goods must be described in accordance with commercial practice and with sufficient detail to enable them to be identified. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
APPLICATION FOR A MOVEMENT CERTIFICATE 
1. Exporter (name, full address, country) 
EUR.1. 
No A 
000.000 
See notes overleaf before completing this form 
2. Application for certificate used in preferential trade between 
and 
(insert appropriate countries, group of countries or territories) 
3. Consignee (name, full address, country) (Optional) 
4. Country, group of countries or territory in which the products are considered as originating 
5. Country, group of countries or territory of destination 
6. Transport details (Optional) 
7. Remarks 
8. Item number; marks and numbers; number and kind of packages; description of goods 
9. Gross mass (kg) or other measure (litres, m3, etc.) 
10. Invoices 
(Optional) 
If goods are not packed, indicate number of articles or state "in bulk" as appropriate. 
It may include the tariff classification of the goods at a heading (four digits code) level. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
DECLARATION BY THE EXPORTER 
I, the undersigned, exporter of the goods described overleaf, 
DECLARE that the goods meet the conditions required for the issue of the attached certificate; 
SPECIFY as follows the circumstances which have enable these goods to meet the above conditions: 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
SUBMIT the following supporting documents: 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………… 
UNDERTAKE to submit, at the request of the appropriate authorities, any supporting evidence which these authorities may require for the purpose of issuing the attached certificate, and undertake, if required, to agree to any inspection of my accounts and to any check on the processes of manufacture of the above goods, carried out by the said authorities; 
REQUEST the issue of the attached certificate for these goods. 
………………………………………… 
(Place and date) 
………………………………………… 
(Signature) 
For example: import documents, movement certificates, invoices, manufacturer's declarations, etc., referring to the products used in manufacture or to the goods re-exported in the same state.' 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX IV 
"Appendix IV 
Invoice declaration 
Specific requirements as for the making out of an invoice declaration 
An invoice declaration, the text of which is set out below, shall be made out using one of the linguistic versions set out there and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting country. If the declaration is handwritten, it shall be written in ink in printed characters. The invoice declaration must be drawn up in accordance with the respective footnotes. The footnotes do not have to be reproduced. 
English version 
The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs or competent governmental authorisation No ... [1]) declares that, except where otherwise clearly indicated, these products are of ... preferential origin [2]. 
Spanish version 
El exportador de los productos incluidos en el presente documento (autorización aduanera o de la autoridad gubernamental competente no ... [1]) declara que, salvo indicación en sentido contrario, estos productos gozan de un origen preferencial ... [2]. 
Danish version 
Eksportøren af varer, der er omfattet af nærværende dokument, (toldmyndighedernes eller den kompetente offentlige myndigheds tilladelse nr. ... [1] erklærer, at varerne, medmindre andet tydeligt er angivet, har præferenceoprindelse i ... [2]. 
German version 
Der Ausführer (Ermächtigter Ausführer; Bewillingung der Zollbehörde oder der zuständigen Regierungsbehörde Nr. … [1]) der Waren, auf die sich dieses Handelspapier bezieht, erklärt, dass diese Waren, soweit nichts anderes angegeben, präferenzbegünstigte Ursprungswaren ... [2] sind. 
Greek version 
Ο εξαγωγέας των προϊόντων που καλύπτονται από το παρόν έγγραφο (άδεια τελωνείου ή της καθύλην αρμόδιας αρχής, υπ'αριθ. ... [1]) δηλώνει ότι, εκτός εάν δηλώνεται σαφώς άλλως, τα προϊόντα αυτά είναι προτιμησιακής καταγωγής ... [2]. 
French version 
L'exportateur des produits couverts par le présent document (autorisation douanière ou de l'autorité gouvernementale compétente no … [1]) déclare que, sauf indication claire du contraire, ces produits ont l'origine préférentielle ... [2]. 
Italian version 
L'esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale o dell'autorità governativa competente n. … [1]) dichiara che, salvo indicazione contraria, le merci sono di origine preferenziale ... [2]. 
Dutch version 
De exporteur van de goederen waarop dit document van toepassing is (douanevergunning of vergunning van de competente overheidsinstantie nr. … [1]) verklaart dat, behoudens uitdrukkelijke andersluidende vermelding, deze goederen van preferentiële ... oorsprong zijn [2]. 
Portuguese version 
O abaixo assinado, exportador dos produtos cobertos pelo presente documento (autorização aduaneira ou da autoridade governamental competente no… [1]) declara que, salvo expressamente indicado em contrário, estes produtos são de origem preferencial ... [2]. 
Finnish version 
Tässä asiakirjassa mainittujen tuotteiden viejä (tullin tai toimivaltaisen julkisen viranomaisen lupa nro... [1]) ilmoittaa, että nämä tuotteet ovat, ellei toisin ole selvästi merkitty, etuuskohteluun oikeutettuja ... alkuperätuotteita [2]. 
Swedish version 
Exportören av de varor som omfattas av detta dokument (tullmyndighetens tillstånd eller behörig statlig myndighet nr. __. [1]) försäkrar att dessa varor, om inte annat tydligt markerats, har förmånsberättigande ___ ursprung [2]. 
Czech version 
Vývozce výrobků uvedených v tomto dokumentu (číslo povolení celního nebo příslušného vládního orgánu ... [1]) prohlašuje, že kromě zřetelně označených, mají tyto výrobky preferenční původ v ... [2]. 
Estonian version 
Käesoleva dokumendiga hõlmatud toodete eksportija (tolliameti või pädeva valitsusasutuse luba nr. ... [1]) deklareerib, et need tooted on ... [2] sooduspäritoluga, välja arvatud juhul kui on selgelt näidatud teisiti. 
Latvian version 
Eksportētājs produktiem, kuri ietverti šajā dokumentā (muitas vai kompetentu valsts iestāžu pilnvara Nr. … [1]), deklarē, ka, iznemot tur, kur ir citādi skaidri noteikts, šiem produktiem ir priekšrocību izcelsme no … [2]. 
Lithuanian version 
Šiame dokumente išvardintų prekių eksportuotojas (muitinės arba kompetentingos vyriausybinės institucijos liudijimo Nr. … [1]) deklaruoja, kad, jeigu kitaip nenurodyta, tai yra … [2]preferencinės kilmės prekės. 
Hungarian version 
A jelen okmányban szereplő áruk exportőre (vámfelhatalmazási szám: … [1]vagy az illetékes kormányzati szerv által kiadott engedély száma: …) kijelentem, hogy eltérő jelzs hiányában az áruk kedvezményes … származásúak [2]. 
Maltese version 
L-esportatur tal-prodotti koperti b'dan id-dokument (awtorizzazzjoni kompetenti tal-gvern jew tad-dwana nru. … [1]) jiddikjara li, hlief fejn indikat b'mod car li mhux hekk, dawn il-prodotti huma ta' origini preferenzjali … [2]. 
Polish version 
Eksporter produktów objętych tym dokumentem (upoważnienie władz celnych lub upoważnienie właściwych władz nr … [1]) deklaruje, że z wyjątkiem gdzie jest to wyraźnie określone, produkty te mają … [2] preferencyjne pochodzenie. 
Slovene version 
Izvoznik blaga, zajetega s tem dokumentom, (pooblastilo carinskih ali pristojnih državnih organov št. ... [1]) izjavlja, da, razen če ni drugače jasno navedeno, ima to blago preferencialno... [2] poreklo. 
Slovak version 
Vývozca výrobkov uvedených v tomto dokumente (číslo povolenia colnej správy alebo príslušného vládneho povolenia … [1]) vyhlasuje, že okrem zreteľne označených, majú tieto výrobky preferenčný pôvod v … [2]. 
…..…….…............................. [3] 
(Place and date) 
….………............................... [4] 
(Signature of the exporter; in addition, the name of the person. The declaration must be indicated in clear script) 
[1] When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 21 of this Annex, the authorisation number of the approved exporter must be entered in this space. When the invoice declaration is not made out by an approved exporter, the words in brackets shall be omitted or the space left blank. 
[2] Origin of products to be indicated. When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla within the meaning of Article 37 of this Annex, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is made out by means of the symbol "CM" 
[3] These indications may be omitted if the information is contained on the document itself. 
[4] See Article 20(5) of this Annex. In cases where the exporter is not required to sign, the exemption of signature also implies the exemption of the name of the signatory." 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX V 
(ANNEX VII to the Agreement referred to in Article 99 of the Agreement) 
Schedule of specific commitments on services 
PART A 
Community's schedule 
Introductory note 
1. The specific commitments in this schedule apply only to the territories in which the Treaties establishing the Community are applied and under the conditions laid down in these Treaties. These commitments apply only to the relations between the Community and its Member States on the one hand, and non-Community countries on the other. They do not affect the rights and obligations of Member States arising from Community law. 
2. AT Austria 
BE Belgium 
CY Cyprus 
CZ Czech Republic 
DE Germany 
DK Denmark 
ES Spain 
EE Estonia 
FR France 
FI Finland 
EL Greece 
HU Hungary 
IT Italy 
IE Ireland 
LU Luxembourg 
LT Lithuania 
LV Latvia 
MT Malta 
NL The Netherlands 
PT Portugal 
PL Poland 
SE Sweden 
SI Slovenia 
SK Slovak Republic 
UK UK United Kingdom 
3. A glossary of terms used by individual Member States is attached to this schedule. 
"Subsidiary" of a legal person means a legal person which is effectively controlled by another legal person. 
"Branch" of a legal person means a place of business not having legal personality which has the appearance of permanency, such as the extension of a parent body, has a management and is materially equipped to negotiate business with third parties so that the latter, although knowing that there will if necessary be a legal link with the parent body, the head office of which is abroad, do not have to deal directly with such parent body but may transact business at the place of business constituting the extension. 
I.HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS | 
All sectors included in this schedule | | | | 
| 3.In all Member States [1] services considered as public utilities at a national or local level may be subject to public monopolies or to exclusive rights granted to private operators [2]. | 3.(a)Treatment accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community is not extended to branches or agencies established in a Member State by a Chilean company. However, this does not prevent a Member State from extending this treatment to branches or agencies established in another Member State by a Chilean company or firm, as regards their operation in the first Member State's territory, unless such extension is explicitly prohibited by Community law. | | 
| | (b)Treatment less favourable may be accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State which have only their registered office or central administration in the territory of the Community, unless it can be shown that they possess an effective and continuous link with the economy of one of the Member States. | | 
| HU: Commercial presence should take the form of limited liability company, joint-stock company, branch or representative office. | Formation of Legal entity 3.SE: A limited liability company (joint stock company) may be established by one or several founders. A founding party shall either reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) or be an EEA legal entity. A partnership can only be a founding party if each partner resides within the EEA [3]. Corresponding conditions prevail for establishment of all other types of legal entities. | | 
| Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: A foreign company (which has not established a legal entity in Sweden) shall conduct its commercial operations through a branch, established in Sweden with independent management and separate accounts.SE: Building projects with a duration of less than a year are exempted from the requirements of establishing a branch or appointing a resident representative.PL: Unbound with respect to branches. | Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: The managing director and at least 50 % of the members of the board shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area).SE: The managing director of a branch shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) [3].SE: Foreign or Swedish citizens not residing in Sweden, who wishes to conduct commercial operations in Sweden, shall appoint and register with the local authority a resident representative responsible for such activities.SI: The establishment of branches by foreign companies is conditioned with the registration of the parent company in a court register in the country of origin for at least one year. | | 
| Legal entities: 3.FI: Acquisition of shares by foreign owners giving more than one third of the voting rights of a major Finnish company or a major business undertaking (with more than 1000 employees or with a turnover exceeding 1 000 million Finnish markka or with a balance sheet total exceeding EUR 167 million) is subject to confirmation by the Finnish authorities; the confirmation may be denied only if an important national interest would be jeopardised.FI: At least half of the founders of a limited company need to be resident either in Finland or in one of the other EEA (European Economic Area) countries. Company exemptions may, however, be granted.PL: The establishment by foreign service suppliers may only take the form of limited partnership, limited liability company or joint stock company | FI: A foreigner living outside the European Economic Area and carrying on a trade as a private entrepreneur or as a partner in a Finnish limited or general partnership needs a trade permit. If a foreign organisation or foundation which is resident outside the European Economic Area intends to carry on a business or trade by establishing a branch in Finland, a trade permit is required. FI: If at least half of the members of the board or the Managing Director are resident outside the European Economic Area, permission is required. Company exemptions may, however, be granted. SK: A foreign natural person whose name is to be registered in the Commercial Register as a person authorised to act on behalf of the entrepreneur is required to submit a residence permit for the Slovak Republic | | 
| Real estate purchases: DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities. Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities. EL: According to Law No 1892/89 permission from the Minister of Defence is needed for a citizen to acquire land in areas near borders. According to administrative practices permission is easily granted for direct investment. CY: Unbound. HU: Unbound for the acquisition of State owned property. LT: Unbound for the acquisition of land by juridical and natural persons. MT: Unbound for the acquisition of real property. LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons. Land lease not exceeding 99 years permitted. PL: Unbound in relation to acquisition of state-owned property, i.e. the regulations governing the privatisation process (for mode 3). SI: Juridical persons, established in the Republic of Slovenia with foreign capital participation, may acquire real estate on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Branches [4] established in the Republic of Slovenia by foreign persons may only acquire real estate, except land, necessary for the conduct of the economic activities for which they are established. Ownership of real estate in the border areas of 10 km by companies in which majority of capital or voting rights belongs directly or indirectly to juridical persons or nationals of another Member State is subject to special permission. SK: None except for land (for modes 3 and 4) | Real estate purchases: AT: The acquisition, purchase as well as rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and legal persons requires an authorisation by the competent regional authorities (Länder) which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are affected or not. IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals. Where such land is for industrial use (other than agricultural industry), this requirement is waived subject to a certificate to this effect from the Minister for Enterprise and Employment. This law does not apply to land within the boundaries of cities and towns. CZ: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign natural and legal entities. Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of the Czech legal entities or participation in joint ventures. Acquisition of the land by foreign entities is subject to authorisation. HU: Unbound for the acquisition of real estate by foreign natural persons. LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons. Land lease not exceeding 99 years permitted. PL: Acquisition of real estate, direct and indirect, by foreigners and foreign legal persons requires permission SK: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign physical and legal entities. Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of Slovak legal entities or participation in joint ventures. Acquisition of the land by foreign entities is subject to authorisation (for modes 3 and 4). | | 
| | IT: Unbound for purchase of real estate. FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right for natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, and for legal persons, to acquire and hold real property on the Åland Islands without permission by the competent authorities of the islands. FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any legal person, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands. | | 
| Investments: FR: Foreign purchases exceeding 33,33 % of the shares of capital or voting rights in existing French enterprise, or 20 % in publicly quoted French companies, are subject to the following regulation: after a period of one month following prior notification, authorisation is tacitly granted unless the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in exceptional circumstances, exercised its right to postpone the investment.FR: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the government of France on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public. ES: Investment in Spain by foreign government and foreign public entities (which tends to imply, besides economic, also non-economic interests to entity's part), directly or through companies or other entities controlled directly or indirectly by foreign governments, need prior authorisation by the government. PT: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the Government of Portugal on a case-by-case basis, of the equity offered to the public. IT: Exclusive rights may be granted or maintained to newly-privatised companies. Voting rights in newly privatised companies may be restricted in some cases. For a period of five years, the acquisition of large equity stakes of companies operating in the fields of defence, transport services, telecommunications and energy may be subject to the approval of the Ministry of Treasury. FR: For establishing in certain [5] commercial, industrial or artisanal activities, a specific authorisation is needed if the managing director is not holder of a permanent residence permit. | Investments: CY: Entities with foreign participation must have paid up capital commensurate with their finance requirements and non-residents must finance their contribution through the importation of foreign exchange. In case the non-resident participation exceeds 24 %, any additional financing for working capital requirements or otherwise should be raised from local and foreign sources in proportion to the participation of residents and non-residents in the entity's equity. In the case of branches of foreign companies, all capital for the initial investment must be provided from foreign sources. Borrowing from local sources is only permitted after the initial implementation of the project, for financing working capital requirements. HU: Unbound for the acquisition of State-owned properties. LT: Investments in organising lotteries are forbidden under the Law on Foreign Capital Investment. MT: Companies with the participation of non-resident legal or natural persons are subject to the same capital requirement applicable to companies that are fully owned by residents as follows: private companies — Lm 500 (with a minimum of 20 % as paid up capital); public companies — Lm 20000 (with a minimum of 25 % paid up capital). The non-resident percentage of share of the equity is to be paid for with funds emanating from abroad. Companies with non-resident participation must apply for a permit from the Ministry of Finance to acquire premises under the appropriate legislation. | | 
| CY: The permission of the Central Bank is required for the participation of any non-resident in a corporate body or partnership in Cyprus. Foreign participation in all sectors/subsectors included in the Schedule of Commitments is normally limited up to 49 %. The decision of the authorities to grant permission for foreign participation is based on an economic needs test, for which the following criteria are used in general: (a)provision of services which are new to Cyprus;(b)promotion of the export orientation of the economy with development of existing and new markets;(c)transfer of modern technology, know-how and new management techniques;(d)improvement either of the productive structure of the economy or of the quality of existing products and services;(e)complementary impact on existing units or activities;(f)viability of proposed project;(g)creation of new job opportunities for scientists, qualitative improvement and training of local staffIn exceptional cases, in which a proposed investment satisfies most of the economic needs test criteria to a large extent, permission for foreign participation exceeding 49 % may be granted. In the case of public companies, foreign equity participation is normally allowed to the extent of up to 30 %. In Mutual Funds the extent of allowable foreign ownership is 40 %. Corporate bodies have to be registered under the Companies Law. Same law requires that a foreign company wishing to establish a place of business or an office in Cyprus must register it as a foreign branch. For the registration the prior approval of the Central Bank is required under the Exchange Control Law. Such approval is subject to the foreign investment policy applicable at the time with regard to the corporate body's proposed activities in Cyprus and the general investment criteria stipulated above. | | | 
| HU: Unbound for the acquisition of State-owned properties. MT: The Companies Act (Cap.386) regulating the supply of services by non-residents through the registration of a local company and the External Transactions Act (Cap. 233) which regulates the issue, acquisition, sale and redemption of securities not listed on the Malta Stock Exchange shall continue to apply. PL: Authorisation of the establishment of a company with foreign equity is required in the case of establishment of company, purchase or acquiring of shares or stocks in an existing company; extending of the activity of the company when the scope of activity embraces at least one of the following areas:management of seaports and airports,dealing in real estate or acting as intermediary in real estate transactions,supply to defence industry that is not covered by other licensing requirements,wholesale trade in imported consumer goods,provision of legal advisory services,establishment of a joint-venture company with a foreign equity in which the Polish party is a State legal person and is contributing non-pecuniary assets as initial capital,arranging a contract, that includes right to use of State property for more than six months or decides on acquisition of such property.SI: For financial services, authorisation is issued by the authorities indicated in sector specific commitments and according to conditions indicated in sector specific commitments. There are no limitations on establishment of a new business establishment (greenfield investments). | | | 
| | Subsidies Eligibility for subsidies from the Community or Member States may be limited to legal persons established within the territory of a Member State or a particular geographical subdivision thereof. Unbound for subsidies for research and development. Unbound for branches established in a Member State by a non-Community company. The supply of a service, or its subsidisation, within the public sector is not in breach of this commitment. Commitments taken in this schedule do not require the Community or Member States to offer a subsidy to a service supplied from outside its territory. To the extent that any subsidies are made available to natural persons, their availability may be limited to nationals of a Member State. | | 
| Exchange regime [6] [7] [8]: 1, 2. SK: In relation to current payments, limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes. In relation to capital payments, foreign exchange authorisation required for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investments abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchase of foreign securities. | Exchange regime [9] 4.CY: Under the Exchange Control Law, non-residents are not normally permitted to borrow from local sources | | 
| 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the entry into and temporary stay [10] within a Member State, without requiring compliance with an economic needs test [11], of the following categories of natural persons providing services: | 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the categories of natural persons referred to in the Market Access column. | | 
| (i)the temporary presence, as intra-corporate transferee [12], of natural persons in the following categories, provided that the service supplier is a legal person and that the persons concerned have been employed by it or have been partners in it (other than as majority shareholders), for at least the year immediately preceding such movement | Community directives on mutual recognition of diplomas do not apply to nationals of third countries. Recognition of the diplomas which are required in order to practise regulated professional services by non-Community nationals remains within the competence of each Member State, unless Community law provides otherwise. The right to practise a regulated professional service in one Member State does not grant the right to practise in another Member State. | | 
| (a)Persons working in a senior position within a legal person, who primarily direct the management of the establishment, receiving general supervision or direction principally from the board of directors or stockholders of the business or their equivalent, including:directing the establishment or a department or subdivision of the establishment,supervising and controlling the work of other supervisory, professional or managerial employees,having the authority personally to hire and fire or recommend hiring, firing or other personnel actions. | Residency requirements AT: Managing directors of branches and legal persons have to be resident in Austria; natural persons responsible within a legal person or a branch for the observance of the Austrian Trade Act must be resident in Austria. MT: Immigration regulations under the Immigration Act (Cap 217) will regulate the issue of residency permits/documents. | | 
| (b)Persons working within a legal person who possess uncommon knowledge essential to the establishment's service, research equipment, techniques or management. In assessing such knowledge, account will be taken not only of knowledge specific to the establishment, but also of whether the person has a high level of qualification referring to a type of work or trade requiring specific technical knowledge, including membership of an accredited profession; | | | 
| (ii)the temporary presence of natural persons in the following categories: | | | 
| (a)persons not residing in the territory of a Member State to which the EC treaties apply, who are representatives of a service supplier and are seeking temporary entry for the purpose of negotiating for the sale of services or entering into agreements to sell services for that service provider, where those representatives will not be engaged in making direct sales to the general public or in supplying services themselves (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned); | | | 
| (b)persons working in a senior position, as defined in (i)(a) above, within a legal person, who are responsible for setting up in a Member State a commercial presence of a service provider of Chile when: | | | 
| the representatives are not engaged in making direct sale or supplying services (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned), and | | | 
| the service provider has its principal place of business in the territory of Chile and has no other representative, office, branch or subsidiary in that Member State. | | | 
| FR: The managing director of an industrial, commercial or artisanal activity [5], if not holder of a residence permit, needs specific authorisation. | | | 
| IT: Access to industrial, commercial and artisanal activities is subject to a residence permit and specific authorisation to pursue the activity. | | | 
| (iii)Unbound except for measures concerning the entry into and temporary stay within a Member State of the following category of natural persons without requiring compliance with an economic needs test except where indicated for a specific subsector. Access is subject to the following conditions [13]: | | | 
| the natural persons are engaged in the supply of a service on a temporary basis as employees of a legal person, who has no commercial presence in any Member State of the European Community,the legal person has obtained a service contract, for a period not exceeding three months from a final consumer in the Member State concerned, through an open tendering procedure or any other procedure which guarantees the bona fide character of the contract (e.g. advertisement of the availability of the contract) where this requirement exists or is introduced in the Member State pursuant to the laws, regulations and requirements of the Community or its Member States, | | | 
| the natural person seeking access should be offering such services as an employee of the legal person supplying the service for at least the year (two years in the case of EL) immediately preceding such movement, | | | 
| the temporary entry and stay within the Member State concerned shall be for a period of not more than three months in any 12-month period (six months in the case of EE; 24 months in the case of NL) or for the duration of the contract, whatever is less, | | | 
| the natural person must possess the necessary academic qualifications and professional experience as specified for the sector or activity concerned in the Member State where the service is supplied, | | | 
| the commitment relates only to the service activity which is the subject of the contract; it does not confer entitlement to exercise the professional title of the Member State concerned, | | | 
| the number of the persons covered by the service contract shall not be larger than necessary to fulfil the contract, as it may be decided by the laws, regulations and requirements of the Community and the Member State where the service is supplied, | | | 
| the service contract has to be obtained in one of the activities mentioned below and subject to the additional conditions mentioned in the subsector by the Member State concerned:Legal servicesAccounting servicesAuditing servicesTaxation advisory servicesArchitectural services, urban planning and landscape architectural servicesEngineering services, integrated engineering servicesMedical, dental and midwifery servicesVeterinary servicesServices provided by nurses, physiotherapists and paramedical personnelComputer and related servicesResearch and development servicesAdvertisingMarket research and opinion pollingManagement consulting servicesServices related to management consultingTechnical testing and analysis servicesRelated scientific and consulting servicesAdvisory and consulting services relating to agriculture, hunting and forestryAdvisory and consulting services relating to fishingServices relating to miningMaintenance and repair of equipmentPhotographic servicesConvention servicesTranslation services | | | 
| Construction servicesSite investigation workEnvironmental servicesHigher education servicesAdult education servicesTravel agencies and tour operator servicesTourist guide servicesEntertainment servicesNews agency servicesServices related to the sale of equipment or to the assignment of a patent | | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
1.Business services | | | | 
A.Professional services | | | | 
(a)Legal advice home country law and public international law (excluding EC law)CZ, EE, LV, PL, SI, SK: CPC 861. | 1.EE: Unbound for CPC 861 other than CPC 86190FR, PT, SI: Unbound for drafting of legal documents.SE: Unbound when practising as "Advokat" (i.e. lawyer/solicitor/barrister) or as an EEA (European Economic Area) lawyer under his or her home country corresponding professional title [14].CY, MT: Unbound | 1.FR, PT, SI: Unbound for drafting of legal documents.DK: Marketing of legal advice activities is restricted to lawyers with a Danish licence to practise and law firms registered in Denmark.SE: Unbound when practising as "Advokat" (i.e. lawyer/solicitor/barrister) or as an EEA (European Economic Area) lawyer under his or her home-country corresponding professional title.EE: Unbound for CPC 861 other than CPC 86190AT: Foreign legal advisors are required to be members of their national Bar Association; they may use their professional title only with reference to the place of registration in their home country.CY, MT: Unbound | | 
| 2.CY, MT: Unbound | 2.CY, MT: Unbound | | 
| 3.DE: Access subject to acceptance into a Bar Association according to the "Federal Lawyers Act" which requires establishment which is restricted to sole proprietorship or partnership only.FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.FI: When practising legal services as a member of the General Bar Association, citizenship of one of the EEA (European Economic Area) countries is requiredAT, CY, MT: Unbound. | 3.DK: Marketing of legal advice activities is restricted to law firms registered in Denmark. Only lawyers with a Danish licence to practise and law firms registered in Denmark may own shares in a Danish law firm. Only lawyers with a Danish licence to practise may sit on the board or be part of the management of a Danish law firm.AT, CY, MT: UnboundCZ: Barristers and commercial lawyers in Czech law are required to be graduates of Czech universities | FR: Host country law and international law (including EC law) are open to the Members of the regulated legal and judicial profession. [15] | 
| CZ: No limitation involving foreign law. For activities involving national law acceptance in the Czech Bar Association or in the Czech Chamber of Commercial Lawyers is required EE: None for CPC 86190. For CPC 861 other than CPC 86190, commercial presence is restricted to sole proprietorships or to law firms with limited liability, in which cases permission is needed from the Bar Association (Advokatuur). According to the Bar Statute/Advokatuuri pohimäärus) only Estonian nationals are allowed to establish a lawyer's office. To be accepted into the Bar Association the following requirements should be met:(a)two years' work experience as an assistant to a barrister at law;(b)passing a relevant examination;(c)work for three years as a senior assistant. After that it is possible to take a lawyer's exam (excellent knowledge of the Estonian law and excellent proficiency in the Estonian language are required). Notaries public are persons performing a public service; they are appointed by the Ministry of JusticeHU: Commercial presence should take the form of partnership with a Hungarian barrister (ügyvéd) or a barrister's office (ügyvédi iroda), or representative officeLV: None for consultancy on home country and public international law. For CPC 861 other than consultancy on home country and public international law, licence issued by the Ministry of Justice and knowledge of Latvian language required. Licensed lawyers may provide all legal services, except representation in criminal proceedings. Representation in criminal proceedings permitted only to sworn solicitors. Nationality requirement for sworn solicitors and sworn notaries. Sworn solicitors and sworn notaries have to be at least 25 years old, having knowledge of Latvian language, graduated from University of Latvia or from another university recognised as equivalent by the Faculty of Law, University of Latvia, and having practical experience. Sworn solicitors have to pass an examination in accordance with rules set up by the Council of Sworn Solicitors. Sworn notaries have to pass an examination in accordance with the order set up by the Minister of Justice in cooperation with the Council of Sworn Notaries. | EE: None for CPC 86190. Unbound for CPC 861 other than CPC 86190. SI: Conditions for acceptance into the Bar Association for lawyers who are not Slovenian nationals and have a licence to practise in another Member State, must have a certificate of knowledge of the Slovenian law and must be proficient in the Slovene language SK: Barristers and commercial lawyers in Slovak law are required to be graduates of Slovak universities | | 
| PL: Establishment subject to authorisation. Nationality requirement SI: Commercial presence is restricted to sole proprietorship or to a law firm with unlimited responsibility (partnership) only. Only lawyers with licence to practise may be partners. For activities involving national law acceptance into the Bar Association (Odvetni{ka zbornica Slovenije) is required. Consent of the Bar Association is required for the establishment of any law firm. Conditions for acceptance into the Bar Association for lawyers who are not Slovenian nationals and have a licence to practice in another Member, must have a certificate of knowledge of the Slovenian law and must be proficient in the Slovene language. Notaries public are persons performing a public service. Concession rights may be acquired by licence. SK: No limitation involving foreign law. For activities involving national law acceptance in the Slovak Bar Association or in the Slovak Chamber of Commercial Lawyers is required. | | | 
| SE: When supplying legal advice as "Advokat", practising of the profession in cooperation with other persons than other "advokats" or in the form of a limited liability company (joint stock company) is not permitted, unless certain conditions are met. LU: Host country law and international law [16] subject to registration as "avocat" at the Luxembourg Bar | SE: When appearing under the title "Advokat" (lawyer, solicitor/barrister) membership in Swedish Bar Association is required. Swedish or EEA (European Economic Area) citizenship and residency are required for such membership. When a person authorised as an "Advokat" in a State within the EEA wishes to practise law on a permanent basis in Sweden under his or her home country professional title, he/she shall register with the Swedish Bar Association. | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, MT: UnboundFR: Legal advice activities and drafting of legal documents as a main activity and for the public, are reserved to the members of the regulated legal and judicial professions [17]. These activities may also be exercised as a secondary activity to the principal activity by members of other regulated professions or by qualified persons.AT: At the request of a consumer, legal advisors may temporarily move into the territory of Austria in order to supply a specific service.FI: When practising legal services as a member of the General Bar Association, citizenship of one of the EEA (European Economic Area) countries is required.SE: When supplying legal advice activity as "Advokat", practising of the profession in cooperation with other persons than other "advokats" or in the form of a limited liability company (joint stock company) is not permitted, unless certain conditions are met. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Marketing of legal advice activities is restricted to lawyers with a Danish licence to practise. Requirement of a Danish legal examination in order to obtain a Danish licence to practise.AT: Foreign legal advisors are required to be members of their national Bar Association; they may use their professional title only with reference to the place of registration in their home country.SE: When appearing under the title "Advokat" (lawyer, solicitor/barrister) membership in the Swedish Bar Association is required. Swedish citizenship and residency are required for such membership.CY, MT: Unbound | | 
| LV: For CPC 861 other than consultancy on home country and public international law, licence issued by the Ministry of Justice and knowledge of Latvian language required. Licensed lawyers may provide all legal services, except representation in criminal proceedings. Representation in criminal proceedings is permitted only to sworn solicitors. Nationality requirement for sworn solicitors and sworn notaries. Sworn solicitors and sworn notaries have to be at least 25 years old, having knowledge of Latvian language, graduated form University of Latvia or from another university recognised as equivalent by the Faculty of Law, University of Latvia, and having practical experience. Sworn solicitors have to pass an examination in accordance with rules set up by the Council of Sworn Solicitors. Sworn notaries have to pass an examination in accordance with the order set up by the Minister of Justice in cooperation with the Council of Sworn Notaries. | | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, SE and UK as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii), subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, SE and UK: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. DE: Unbound for activities reserved to "Rechtsanwalt". BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30 000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, SE and UK as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii): DK: Marketing of legal advice activities is restricted to lawyers with a Danish licence to practise. Requirement of a Danish legal examination in order to obtain a Danish licence to practise. SE: When appearing under the title "Advokat" (lawyer, solicitor/barrister) membership of the Swedish Bar Association is required. Swedish citizenship and residency are required for such membership. | | 
(b)Accounting services(CPC 86212 other than "auditing services", 86213, 86219) | 1.CY, FR, HU, IT, MT, SI: Unbound2.None | 1.FR, IT, MT, SI: UnboundAT: No representation before competent authorities2.None | | 
| 3.DE: Provision through a "GmbH %amp% Co. KG" and "EWIV" is prohibited.FR: Provision through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.PT: Provision through professional establishment only.IT: Access is restricted to natural persons. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.AT: Foreign accountants' (who must be authorised according to the law of their home country) equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may not exceed 25 %; this applies only to non-members of the Austrian Professional Body.CY: Access is restricted to natural persons who have obtained authorisation from the Minister of Finance. Authorisation is subject to economic needs test. The criteria used are analogous to those for granting permission for foreign investment (listed in horizontal section) as they apply to this subsector, always taking into consideration the employment situation in the subsector. Professional associations (partnerships) among natural persons is permitted. No body corporate is allowed. | 3.DK: Foreign accountants may enter into partnerships with Danish authorised accountants after obtaining permission from the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency. | | 
| LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia. Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a) having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed; (b) having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (c) who have passed a qualification examination and acquired licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d) having an excellent reputation. SI: Commercial presence should take the form of a juridical person | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:FR: non-EC professionals may be permitted to provide services, by a decision of the Minister of Economics, Finance and Budget, in agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The requirement of residence cannot exceed five years.IT: Condition of residency for "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali".DK: Residence requirement unless otherwise provided by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency.AT: at the request of a consumer, accountants may temporarily move into the territory of Austria in order to supply a specific service. However, as a rule natural persons supplying accounting services are required to have their professional centre (commercial presence) in Austria. No representation before competent authorities.LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia. Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and:(a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least 3 years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)which have passed qualification examination and acquired licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(d)having excellent reputationSI: Limitations on natural persons employed by juridical persons only | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK, IT: Residence requirement.SI: Unbound except as indicated in the Market Access column. | | 
| Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' experience in the sector. AT: examination before the Austrian professional body. The employer must be member of the relevant professional body in the home country where such body exists. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. DE: Unbound for activities reserved by law in the "Wirtschaftsprüfer". LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia. Sworn auditors may be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired a licence of sworn auditor in accordance with the requirements of Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d)having excellent reputationSI: limitations on natural persons employed by juridical persons only | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(b)Auditing services [18] [19](CPC 86211 and 86212 other than accounting services) | 1.AT, BE, CY, DE, DK, ES, FR, FI, HU, IT, IE, LU, LT, MT, NL, PT, SE, SI, UK: UnboundLT: None except that auditor's report must be prepared in conjunction with an auditor accredited to practice in Lithuania. | 1.AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, FR, FI, IT, IE, LU, LT, MT, NL, PT, SE, SI, UK: UnboundLT: None except that an auditor's report must be prepared in conjunction with an auditor accredited to practise in Lithuania. | | 
| 2.None | 2.None | | 
| 3.BE: Provision through a "SA" and "Société en commandite" is prohibited.DE: Provision through a "GmbH %amp% Co. KG" and "EWIV" is prohibited.FR: For statutory audits: provision through any company form except SNC, SCS and secondary offices.PT: Provision through professional association only.IE: Provision through partnership only.IT: For access as "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali" and "Dottori commerciali", access is restricted to natural persons only. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.FI: At least one of the auditors of a Finnish Liability company must be resident in one of the EEA (European Economic Area) countries or an authorised auditing company.SE: Only auditors approved in the EEA may perform legal auditing services in certain legal entities, i.e. in all limited companies. Only such persons may be share-owners or form partnership in companies which practise qualified auditing (for official purposes). EEA exam, work experience and residency are required for approval. | 3.DK: Foreign auditors may enter into partnerships with Danish State authorised accountants after obtaining permission from the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency.SE: Residency within the EEA (European Economic Area) and Swedish exam required [20] | | 
| AT: Foreign auditors' (who must be authorised according to the law of their home country) equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may not exceed 25 %; this applies only to non-members of the Austrian Professional Body. | | | 
| CY: Access is restricted to natural persons who have obtained authorisation from the Minister of Finance. Authorisation is subject to economic needs test. The criteria used are analogous to those for granting permission for foreign investment (listed in horizontal section) as they apply to this subsector, always taking into consideration the employment situation in the subsector. Professional associations (partnerships) among natural persons are permitted. No body corporate is allowed. | | | 
| CZ: Auditing may be provided by natural or juridical persons registered in the auditors list of the Chamber of Auditors. In case of juridical persons, at least 60 % of capital share or voting rights are reserved for Czech nationals. | | | 
| LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia. Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(d)having excellent reputation | | | 
| LT: None, except not less than 75 % of shares should belong to auditors or auditing companies. The establishment is allowed through all kinds of legal forms of companies except Public Stock Corporation (AB). Qualification requirements for auditors in the country of origin of those auditors or auditing companies should be not lower than in Lithuania. PL: Nationality requirement. Foreign auditors may practise after confirmation of their qualifications. SI: Commercial presence should take the form of a juridical person. The share of foreign persons in auditing companies may not exceed 49 % of the equity. Provision through auditing companies only. SK: Auditing may be provided by natural or juridical persons registered in the auditors list of the Chamber of Auditors. In case of juridical persons at least 60 % of capital share or voting rights are reserved for Slovak nationals. | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Residence condition, unless otherwise provided by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency.ES: Residency requirement.EL: Conditions of nationality for statutory auditors.ES: Audit companies: administrators, directors and partners of companies other than those covered by the eighth EEC Directive on company law, must fulfil a residency condition. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Residence requirement.IT, PT: Residence requirement for individual auditors.SE: Residency within the EEA (European Economic Area) and Swedish exam required [20].SI: Unbound except as indicated in the Market Access column | | 
| IT: Residency requirement for "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali". Audit companies: administrators and auditors in "società di revisions" other than those covered by the eighth EEC Directive on company law, must fulfil a residency condition. FI: At least one of the auditors of a Finnish Liability company must be resident in one of the EEA (European Economic Area) countries or an authorised auditing company. SE: Only auditors approved in EEA may perform legal auditing services in certain legal entities, i.e. in all limited companies. Only such persons may be share-owners or form partnership in companies which practice qualified auditing (for official purposes). LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia. Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired a licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d) (d)having an excellent reputation. | | | 
| PL: Nationality requirement. Foreign auditors may practise after confirmation of their qualifications. SI: Limitations on natural persons employed by juridical persons only. | | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. DE: Unbound for activities reserved by law in the "Wirtschaftsprüfer". | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(b)Bookkeeping services(CPC 86220) | 1.CY, FR, HU, IT, MT, SI: Unbound2.None. | 1.FR, IT, MT, SI: UnboundAT: No representation before competent authorities2.None. | | 
| 3.FR: Provision through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.IT: Access for natural persons only. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.AT: Foreign bookkeepers' (who must be authorised according to the law of their home country) equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may not exceed 25 %; this applies only to non-members of the Austrian Professional Body.CY: Access is restricted to natural persons who have obtained authorisation from the Minister of Finance. Authorisation is subject to economic needs test. The criteria used are analogous to those for granting permission for foreign investment (listed in horizontal section) as they apply to this subsector, always taking into consideration the employment situation in the subsector. Professional associations (partnerships) among natural persons is permitted. No body corporate is allowed. | 3.None | | 
| LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia. Sworn auditors may be persons no younger than 25 years and: (a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired a licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d) (d)having an excellent reputation. SI: Commercial presence should take the form of a juridical person. | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:FR: non-EC professionals may be permitted to provide services, by a decision of the Minister of Economics, Finance and Budget, in agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The requirement of residence cannot exceed five years.IT: Condition of residency for "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali".AT: At the request of a consumer, bookkeepers may temporarily move into the territory of Austria in order to supply a specific service; however, as a rule natural persons supplying bookkeepers services are required to have their professional centre (commercial presence) in Austria.LV: The owner of shares or the head of a firm should be qualified as a sworn auditor in Latvia. Sworn auditors can be persons no younger than 25 years and:(a)having a high school degree in economics or in other specialities, if an examination on basic economics is passed;(b)having at least three years experience in auditing recognised by the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors;(c)who have passed a qualification examination and acquired a licence of sworn auditor in accordance with requirements of the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors; (d) (d)having an excellent reputation.SI: Limitations on natural persons employed by juridical persons only. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT: Residence requirement for "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali".PT: Residence requirement. | | 
| Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' experience in the sector. AT: examination before the Austrian professional body. The employer must be member of the relevant professional body in the home country where such body exists. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. DE: Unbound for activities reserved by law in the "Wirtschaftsprüfer". | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(c)Taxation Advisory Services(CPC 863 excluding representation in Court/tribunals) | 1.FR: Unbound for the drafting of legal documents.CY: Tax agents must be duly authorised by the Minister of Finance. Authorisation is subject to an economic needs test2.None | 1.FR: Unbound for the drafting of legal documents.AT: No representation before competent authorities2.None | | 
| 3.IT: Access for natural persons only. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.AT: Foreign tax advisors' (who must be authorised according to the law of their home country) equity participation and shares in the operating results of any Austrian legal entity may not exceed 25 per cent; this applies only to non-members of the Austrian Professional Body.CY: Access is restricted to natural persons who have obtained authorisation from the Minister of Finance. Authorisation is subject to economic needs test. The criteria used are analogous to those for granting permission for foreign investment (listed in horizontal section) as they apply to this subsector, always taking into consideration the employment situation in the subsector. Professional associations (partnerships) among natural persons is permitted. No body corporate is allowed.CZ, SK: Taxation services may be provided by natural or juridical persons registered in the list of the Chamber of Tax Consultants or in the Chamber of Auditors | 3.None | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:FR: Legal advice activities and drafting of legal documents as a main activity and for the public, are reserved to the members of the regulated legal and judicial professions [17]. These activities may also be exercised as a secondary activity to the principal activity by members of other regulated professions or by qualified persons.IT: Condition of residency for "Ragionieri-Periti commerciali". | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirement | | 
| AT: At the request of a consumer tax advisors may temporarily move into the territory of Austria in order to supply a specific service; however, as a rule natural persons supplying taxation services are required to have their professional centre (commercial presence) in Austria. HU: Permanent residency requirement | | | 
| Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: AT, BE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' experience in the sector. AT: Examination before the Austrian professional body. The employer must be member of the relevant professional body in the home country where such body exists. DE: Unbound except for consulting services related to foreign tax law, where: university degree and professional, qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(d)Architectural Services (CPC 8671) | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound. | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL: Unbound.DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad.AT: None for pure planning services | | 
| 2.None3.ES: Access is restricted to natural persons.FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons. Professional associations. (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.CZ: Authorisation by the Czech Chamber of Architects is required. Authorisation by analogous foreign institutions may be recognized. Natural and juridical persons may provide architectural services only by authorised architects. Condition of nationality and residence is required, however exceptions might be considered. | 2.None3.None | | 
| LV: The practice of three years in Latvia in the field of projecting and university degree required to receive the licence enabling business activity with full range of legal responsibility and rights to sign a project SK: Authorisation by the Slovak Chamber of Architects is required. Authorisation by analogous foreign institutions may be recognized. Natural and juridical persons may provide architectural services only by authorised architects. Condition of nationality and residence is required, however exceptions might be considered | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:EL: Condition of nationality.HU: Permanent residency requirement | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:BE, DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements or for BE, with special authorisation by Royal Decree.IT: Residence requirement. | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. EE: A university degree and five years of working experience in a related field. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. ES: Academic and professional qualifications recognized by the national authorities and licence delivered by the Professional Association. Unbound for CPC 86713, 86714, 86719. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following conditions: DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements. DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad. | | 
(e)Engineering services(CPC 8672) | 1.CY, EL, IT, MT, PT: Unbound.2.None3.ES: Access is restricted to natural persons.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.CZ: Authorisation by the Czech Chamber of Authorised Engineers is required. Authorisation by analogous foreign institutions may be recognized. Natural and juridical persons may provide engineering services only by authorised engineers. Condition of nationality and residence.SK: Authorisation by the Slovak Chamber of Authorised Engineers is required. Authorisation by analogous foreign institutions may be recognized. Natural and juridical persons may provide engineering services only by authorised engineers. Condition of nationality and residence.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.CY, EL, IT, MT, PT: Unbound.AT: None for pure planning servicesSI: None for pure planning services; the submission of plans for approval by the competent authorities requires co-operation with an established supplier of planning services.2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:IT, PT: Residency requirements | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. EE: Unbound except for professionals where: university degree and five years of working experience in a related field. UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. HU: Permanent residency requirement | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(f)Integrated Engineering Services(CPC 8673) | 1.CY, EL, IT, MT, PT: Unbound.2.None3.ES: Access is restricted to natural persons.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.SK: Authorisation by the Slovak Chamber of Authorised Engineers is required. Authorisation by analogous foreign institutions may be recognized. Natural and juridical persons may provide engineering services only by authorised engineers. Condition of citizenship and residence is required.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.CY, EL, IT, MT, PT: Unbound.AT: None for pure planning servicesSI: None for pure planning services; the submission of plans for approval by the competent authorities requires cooperation with an established supplier of planning services.2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:IT, PT: Residency requirements | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. EE: Unbound except for professionals where: university degree and five years of working experience in a related field. UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(g)Urban Planning and Landscape Architectural Services(CPC 8674) | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | 1.BE, CY, EL, IT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound.AT: None for pure planning servicesDE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | | 
| 2.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | 2.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | | 
| 3.IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.CZ: Authorisation by the Czech Chamber of Architects is required. Authorisation by analogous foreign institutions may be recognized. Natural and juridical persons may provide architectural services only by authorised architects. Condition of nationality and residence is required, however exceptions might be consideredHU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural ServicesLV: None for Urban Planning Services. For Landscape Architectural Services, three years practice in Latvia in the field of projecting and university degree required to receive the licence enabling business activity with full range of legal responsibility and rights to sign a projectSK: Authorisation by the Slovak Chamber of Architects is required. Authorisation by analogous foreign institutions may be recognized. Natural and juridical persons may provide architectural services only by authorised architects. Condition of nationality and residence is required, however exceptions might be considered | 3.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:PT: Condition of nationality.HU: Permanent residency requirement for Urban Planning Services. Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:BE, DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements or, for BE, with special authorisation by Royal Decree.IT: Residence requirement.HU: Unbound for Landscape Architectural Services | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, NL, UK, SE: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. EE: Unbound except for professionals where: university degree and five years of working experience in a related field. UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, NL, UK, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following conditions: DE: Use by third country qualified professionals of the professional title is only possible on the basis of mutual recognition agreements. DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad | | 
(h)Medical, dental and Midwifery services(CPC 9312, 93191 [21]) | 1.All Member States except CZ, HU, LV, LT, PL, SE, SI: UnboundPL, SE: NoneCZ, HU, LV, LT, SI: Unbound for midwifery services.2.CY, FI, MT: Unbound.CZ, EE, HU, SI, SK: Unbound for midwifery services | 1.All Member States except CZ, HU, LV, LT, PL, SE, SI: UnboundCZ, HU, LV, LT, SI: Unbound for midwifery services.PL, SE: None2.CY, FI, MT: Unbound.CZ, EE, HU, SI, SK: Unbound for midwifery services | | 
| 3.AT: Unbound for medical and dental services; for midwives: access restricted to natural persons only.DE: Access restricted to natural persons only. Economic needs test for medical doctors and dentists who are authorised to treat members of public insurance schemes. The criterion is shortage of doctors and dentists in the given region.CY, EE, MT: UnboundCZ, SK: Access to medical and dental services is restricted to natural persons only. Authorisation by the Ministry of Health required for foreign natural persons. Unbound for midwifery services.ES: Access restricted to natural persons only.HU: Unbound for midwifery services. | 3.AT: Unbound for medical and dental servicesCY, EE, FI, MT: UnboundCZ, HU, SI, SK: Unbound for midwifery servicesEE: Unbound for midwifery services. For Medical and dental Services, unbound except any professionals trained outside Estonia are required to present a certificate of auxiliary training courses of Tartu University. This requirement also applies to Estonian nationals trained abroadLT: Must communicate in Lithuanian language (refers to persons employed by a company). | | 
| IT, PT: Access is restricted to natural persons only. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted. IE: Access through partnership or natural persons only. SE: Needs test applied to decide the number of private practices to be subsidised though the public insurance scheme. | | | 
| UK: Establishment for doctors under the National Health Service is subject to medical manpower planning. FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only. LV: None for midwifery services. For medical and dental services, nationality requirement. Practice of medical profession by foreigners requires the permission from local health authority, based on economic needs for medical doctors and dentists in a given region. | | | 
| LT: For medical and dental services none, except supply of service is subject to authorisation which is based on a health services plan established in function of needs, taking into account the population and already existing medical and dental services. For midwifery services, access limited to sole proprietorship only and economic needs test may be applied PL: Nationality requirement. Practice of medical profession by foreigners requires the permission except for midwives. SI: Membership of Doctors Association r required. Conditions for acceptance into Doctors Association for doctors who are not Slovenian nationals is licence to practice in an another Member and have a good command of the Slovenian language [22]. Unbound for midwifery services | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT: Unbound except for midwivesDK: Limited authorisation to fulfil a specific function can be given for maximum 18 months.CY, FI, MT: Unbound.PT: Condition of nationality.FR: Condition of nationality. However, access is possible within annually established quotas.DE: Condition of nationality for doctors and dentists which can be waived on an exceptional basis in cases of public health interest.CZ, EE, HU, SI, SK: Unbound for Midwives ServicesLV: For medical and dental services, nationality requirement. Practise of medical profession by foreigners requires the permission from local health authority, based on economic needs for medical doctors and dentists in a given region. For midwives services, access restricted to natural persons only. Economic needs determined by the total number of midwives in the given region, authorised by local health authoritiesPL: Nationality requirement. Practise of medical profession by foreigners requires the permission except for midwives. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT: Unbound for doctors and dentists.DK: Residence requirement in order to obtain necessary individual authorisation from the National Board of Health.CY, FI, MT: Unbound.IT: Residence requirement.CZ, SK: Condition of residence for medical and dental services. Unbound for midwives services. Unbound for midwives servicesEE, HU, SI: Unbound for Midwives ServicesLV, PL: Foreign medical doctors have limited election rights within the professional chambersLT: Foreigners must pass additional qualification exam | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. DE: Condition of nationality for doctors and dentists which can be waived on an exceptional basis in cases of public health interest. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(i)Veterinary services(CPC 932) | 1.All Member States except FI, LU, LT, PL, SE, UK: UnboundFI, LU, LT, PL, SE: None.UK: unbound except for veterinary laboratory and technical services supplied to veterinary surgeons, general advice, guidance and information e.g.: nutritional, behavioural and pet-care2.CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound | 1.All Member States except FI, LU, LT, PL, SE, UK: UnboundFI, LU, LT, PL, SE: None.UK: unbound except for veterinary laboratory and technical services supplied to veterinary surgeons, general advice, guidance and information e.g.: nutritional, behavioural and pet-care2.CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound | | 
| 3.AT, CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound.DE, DK, ES, PT: Access restricted to natural persons.IT: Access restricted to natural persons. Professional associations (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.IE, UK: Access through partnership or natural persons only.FR: Provision through SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.CZ, SK: Access is restricted to natural persons only. Authorisation by veterinary administration is required.PL: Nationality requirement. Foreign persons may apply for permission to practice. | 3.AT, CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CZ, DE, FR, EL, PT, SK: Condition of nationality.PL: Nationality requirement. Foreign persons may apply for permission to practiceAT, CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, EE, HU, MT, SI: Unbound.IT, CZ, SK: Residence requirement.LT: Foreigners must pass additional qualification exam. | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30 000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(j)Services provided by nurses, physiotherapists and paramedical personnel(CPC 93191 [23], except for AT where the following activities of CPC 9319 are covered: nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, logotherapists, dieticians and nutricians, psychologists and psychotherapists) | 1.Unbound except for FI, LU, PL and SE: None2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: UnboundES, PT: Nurses — access restricted to natural persons.IT: Nurses — access restricted to natural persons. Professional associations (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted.FR: Provision through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée, ou en commandite par actions) or SCP only.AT: Access restricted to natural persons only except for psychologists and psychotherapists: none.SE: Needs test applied to decide the number of private practices to be subsidised through the public insurance scheme.LT: Access limited to sole proprietorship only. Economic needs test may be applied.PL: Nationality requirement. | 1.Unbound except for FI, LU, PL and SE: None.2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: UnboundLT: None except as under market access | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Limited authorisation to fulfil a specific function can be given for maximum 18 monthsPT: Condition of nationalityIT: Subject to economic needs test: decision is subject to regional vacancies and shortages | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Residence requirement in order to obtain necessary individual authorisation from the National Board of Health.CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
| AT: natural persons, except nurses, psychologists and psychotherapists may establish a professional practice in Austria provided that the person concerned has practised the profession in question at least three years preceding the setting up of the professional practice in Austria LV: access restricted to natural persons only. Economic needs determined by the total number of nurses in the given region, authorised by local health authorities PL: Nationality requirement in the case of midwives and nurses CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, SI, SK: Unbound. | | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
Pharmacists (retail distribution of pharmaceutical goods - part of CPC 63211) | 1.Unbound2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound | 1.Unbound2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
| 3. [24] AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: UnboundDE, DK, ES, EL, IT [25], LU, NL, PT: Access restricted to natural persons only.BE, DK, ES, FR, EL, IT, LU, PT: Degree of pharmacist required.BE, DE, DK, ES, FR, IT, IE, PT: Economic needs test applied.FR: On a national treatment basis access through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions) SNC and SARL only. | 3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the specific conditions:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: UnboundFR: Condition of nationality. However, within established quotas, access for third country nationals is possible provided the service provider holds the French degree in pharmacy.DE, EL: Condition of nationality. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the specific conditionsAT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: UnboundIT, PT: Residence requirement | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
B.Computer and Related Services | | | | 
(a)Consultancy Services related to the Installation of Computer Hardware(CPC 841)(b)Software Implementation Services(CPC 842)(c)Data Processing Services (CPC 843)(d)Data Base Services(CPC 844) Maintenance and Repair (CPC 845)(e)Other Computer Services (CPC 849 | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, LU, NL, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: IT, NL: Unbound, except for computer scientists, systems analysts, programmers, software document analysts and field engineers where: university degree and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. SE: University degree and three years professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. IT: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. EL: Unbound, except for computer scientists, systems analysts, programmers, software document analysts where: university degree and five years' professional experience in the sector. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, LU, NL, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
C.Research and Development Services(a)R %amp% D services on natural sciences(All Member States except LV: CPC 851. LV: only experimental development services on chemistry and biology-CPC 85102) | 1, 2 and 3. None except for CY, CZ, FR, IE, LT, MT, PL, SK: unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, FR, IE, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1, 2 and 3. None except for CY, CZ, FR, IE, LT, MT, PL, SK: unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, FR, IE, LT, MT, , PL, SK: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES and FR where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, SE: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. FR: The researchers are in possession of an employment contract from a research body.The work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding nine months renewable for the duration of the contract.Compliance with an economic needs test is required.The research body must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES and FR where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
| For HU only: Personalities of internationally recognized reputation who have been invited by scientific research institutes for the duration of the invitation. | | | 
(b)R %amp% D services on social sciences and humanities(CPC 852) | 1.None2.None3.IT: Access to the profession of psychologist is restricted to natural persons only. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted.PT: Access to the profession of psychologist is restricted to natural persons only. | 1.None2.None3.None | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirement for psychologists | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, FR and LU where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30000 Euro. The researchers are in possession of an employment contract from a research body.The work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding nine months renewable for the duration of the contract.Compliance with an economic needs test is required.The research body must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, FR and LU where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
| For HU only: Personalities of internationally recognized reputation who have been invited by scientific research institutes for the duration of the invitation. | | | 
(c)Interdisciplinary R %amp% D services (CPC 853) | 1, 2 and 3. None except for CY, CZ, FR, IE, LT, LV, MT, PL, SK: unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, IE, LT, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1, 2 and 3. None except for CY, CZ, FR, IE, LT, LV, MT, PL, SK: unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, IE, LT, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES and FR where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. FR: The researchers are in possession of an employment contract from a research body.The work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding nine months renewable for the duration of the contract.Compliance with an economic needs test is required.The research body must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES and FR where concerning the temporary entry of researchers as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
| For HU only: Personalities of internationally recognised reputation who have been invited by scientific research institutes for the duration of the invitation. | | | 
D.Real Estate Services [26](a)Involving own or leased property(CPC 821) | 1.CY, CZ, EE, HU, IE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundES: Access through natural persons, partnership or "sociedad en comandita" only. | 1.CY, CZ, EE, HU, IE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundIT, PT: Residence requirement. | | 
(b)On a fee or contract basis (e.g. property evaluation, estate management, etc.) (CPC 822) | 1.CY, CZ, EE, HU, IE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundES: Access is restricted to natural persons. | 1.CY, CZ, EE, HU, IE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundDK: Authorisation for authorised estate agent may limit the scope of activity. | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundDK: Authorised estate agent: Residence requirement unless waived by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency. Unauthorised estate agent: Residence requirement unless waived by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundDK: Authorised and unauthorised estate agent: Residence requirement unless waived by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency.IT, PT: Residence requirement. | | 
E.Rental/leasing services without operators(a)Relating to ships(CPC 83103) | 1.FR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.CY, HU, MT, PL: Unbound2.CY, MT, PL: UnboundFR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.3.CY, MT, PL: UnboundFR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.SE: To fly the Swedish flag proof of dominating Swedish operating influence must be shown in case of foreign ownership interests in ships.LT: Ships must be owned by Lithuanian natural persons or companies established in Lithuania | 1.CY, MT, PL: Unbound2.CY, MT, PL: Unbound3.CY, MT, PL: Unbound | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, MT, PL: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, MT, PL: Unbound | | 
(b)Relating to aircraft(CPC 83104) | 1.CY, CZ, HU, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound2.All Member States except CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Aircraft used by Community air carriers have to be registered in the Member State licensing the air carrier or elsewhere in the Community. Waivers can be granted for short term lease contracts or under exceptional circumstances.CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1.CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound2.CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
| 3.All Member States except CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: To be registered in the aircraft register of these Member States, the aircraft must be owned either by natural persons meeting specific nationality criteria or by legal persons meeting specific criteria regarding ownership of capital and control (including nationality of directors).CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 3.CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
(c)Relating to other transport equipment (CPC 83101, 83102, 83105) | 1.CY, HU, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound2.CY, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.CY, LT, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, LT, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | 1.CY, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound2.CY, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.CY, LT, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, LT, LV, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | | 
(d)Relating to other machinery and equipment(CPC 83106, 83107, 83108, 83109) | 1)CY, CZ, HU, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound2)CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound3)CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound4)Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1.CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound2.CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, LV, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
(e)Other (CPC 832)EE, LV, LT: Including pre-recorded video-cassettes for use in home entertainment equipment (CPC 83202) | 1.All Member States except EE, LV, LT: UnboundEE, LT, LV: None2.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, LT: UnboundEE, HU, LV, LT: None3.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, LT: UnboundEE, HU, LV, LT: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:All Member States except for EE, HU, LV, LT: UnboundEE, HU, LV, LT: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section | 1.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, LT: UnboundEE, HU, LV, LT: None2.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, LT: UnboundEE, HU, LV, LT: None3.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, LT: UnboundEE, HU, LV, LT: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:All Member States except for EE, HU, LV, LT: UnboundEE, HU: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal sectionLV, LT: None | | 
Rental services with operators Rental of vessels with crew (CPC 7213, 7223) | 1.FR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SK, SI: Unbound.2.FR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.AT, CY, EE, HU, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound.3.FR: Chartering of all ships is subject to prior notification.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SK, SI: Unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following conditions:CY, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound. | 1.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SK, SI: Unbound.2.AT, CY, EE, HU, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound.3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SK, SI: Unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following conditions:CY, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
Rental of commercial road vehicles with operator (CPC 7124) | 1.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following conditions:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound | 1.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following conditions:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI, SE: Unbound | | 
F.Other business services | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
(a)Advertising (All Member States except PL, SI: CPC 871;PL: CPC 871 excluding advertising of tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, pharmaceuticals;SI: CPC 8711 [27] and 8712 [27], excluding direct mail advertising, outdoor advertising and excluding for goods subject to import authorisation and excluding pharmaceutical) | | | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, LU, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, IT, UK, SE: Relevant qualifications and three years' professional experience. IT, UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. EL: Relevant qualifications and five years' professional experience. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, LU, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(b)Market research and opinion polling(CPC 864) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(c)Management consulting services(CPC 865) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, IT, LU, LV, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: IT, UK: Unbound except for managers and senior consultants where: university degree and three years' professional experience. BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. EE, LV: Unbound except for professionals where: university degree and five years of working experience in a related field. SE: University degree and three years professional experience in the sector. IT, UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, IT, LU, LV, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(d)Services related to management consulting (CPC 866) | 1, 2 and 3. HU: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | 1, 2 and 3. HU: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, IT, LU, LV, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: IT, UK: Unbound except for managers and senior consultants where: university degree and three years' professional experience. EE, LV: Unbound except for professionals where: university degree and five years of working experience in a related field. BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. SE: University degree and three years professional experience in the sector. IT, UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, IT, LU, LV, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(e)Technical testing and analysis services(CPC 8676) | 1.IT: Unbound for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound2.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | 1.IT: Unbound for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound2.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | | 
| 3.ES: Access for chemical analysis through natural persons only.IT: Access for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst through natural persons only. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted.PT: Access for the profession of biologist and chemical analyst through natural persons only.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | 3.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK, SE: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirements for biologist and chemical analyst.CY, CZ, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES, UK, SE: University degree or technical qualifications demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience. EE: Unbound except for professionals where: university degree and five years of working experience in a related field. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE, LU, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(f)Advisory and consulting services relating to agriculture, hunting and forestry (SE: excluding hunting)HU: part of CPC 881LV, LT, PL: services incidental to agriculture, hunting and forestry (CPC 881) | 1.IT: Unbound for activities reserved to agronomist and "periti agrari".2.None3.ES: Access for agronomist and engineers in forestry is restricted to natural persons.PT: Access for agronomist is restricted to natural persons | 1.IT: Unbound for activities reserved to agronomist and "periti agrari".2.None3.None | | 
| IT: Access for agronomist and "periti agrari" restricted to natural persons. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted. | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirement for agronomists | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(g)Advisory and consulting services relating to fishing | 1, 2 and 3. CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | 1, 2 and 3. CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(h)Services relating to mining | 1.None2.None3.ES, PT: Access for mining engineers is restricted to natural persons.LT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:FI: The right to seek, claim and exploit a deposit is limited to natural persons resident within the EEA. Exemptions to the residency-requirement are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry.LT: Unbound | 1.None2.None3.LT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:PT: Residence requirementLT: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. FI: The right to seek, claim and exploit a deposit is limited to natural persons resident within the EEA. Exemptions to the residency requirement are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES, as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(i)Services incidental to manufacturingEE: consulting services relating to manufacturing (part of CPC 884 and part of 885 except for 88442)HU consulting services relating to manufacturing (part of CPC 884 and part of CPC 885) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None2.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None3.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section | 1, All Member States except EE, HU: Unbound EE, HU: None 2.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU, : None3.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section | | 
(j)Services incidental to energy distribution(LV: CPC 887.HU: only consultancy services, ex CPC 887. | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except HU, LV, LT, SI: Unbound HU, LV, LT, SI: None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:All Member States except HU, LV, LT, SI: UnboundHU, LT, LV, SI: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except HU, LV, LT, SI: Unbound HU, LV, LT, SI: None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:All Member States except HU, LV, LT, SI: UnboundHU, LT and SI: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal sectionLV: None | | 
LT: Covers consultancy services related to the transmission and distribution on a fee basis of electricity, gaseous fuels, steam and hot water to household, industrial, commercial and other users - CPC 887 [28] SI: Services Incidental to energy distribution - for gas only [29] — part of CPC 887) | | | | 
(k)Placement and supply services of personnelExecutive search services(CPC 87201) | 1.AT, DE, ES, FI, IE, PT, SE, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.AT, FI, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: UnboundES: State monopoly.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | 1.AT, DE, ES, FI, IE, PT, SE, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound.2.AT, FI, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK, SI: Unbound | | 
Placement services (CPC 87202) | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, PT, SK: UnboundDE: Subject to a mandate given to the service supplier by the competent authority. The mandate will be granted in function of the situation and development of the labour market.BE, FR, ES, IT: State monopoly.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound3.AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, PT, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, LT, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
Supply services of office support personnel (CPC 87203) | 1.AT DE, FR, IT, IE, NL, PT, SK: Unbound.2.AT, FI, SK: Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, SK: UnboundIT: State monopoly.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, FI, SK: Unbound | 1.AT, DE, FR, IT, IE, NL, PT, SK: Unbound.2.AT, FI, SK: Unbound3.AT, DE, FI, PT, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, FI, SK: Unbound | | 
l.Security services(CPC 87302, 87303, 87304, 87305) | 1.BE, CY, CZ, ES, EE, FR, IT, LV, LT, MT, PT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.2.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.ES: Access through Sociedades Anonimas, Sociedades de Responsabilidad Limitada, Sociedades Anonimas Laborales and Sociedades Cooperativas only. Access is subject to prior authorisation. In granting the authorisation, the Council of Ministers takes into account conditions such as competence, professional integrity and independence, adequacy of the protection provided for the security of the population and the public order.DK: Unbound for airport guard services. Requirement to be a national legal person. Access is subject to prior authorisation. In granting the authorisation, the Ministry of Justice takes into account conditions such as competence, professional integrity and independence, experience and good reputation of the firm seeking establishment. | 1.BE, CY, CZ, ES, EE, FR, IT, LV, LT, MT, PT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.2.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.DK: Requirement of residence and nationality for majority of members of the board and for managers. Unbound for airport guard services. | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Unbound for airport guard services. Nationality requirement for managers.FR: Requirement of nationality for managing directors and directors.BE: Condition of nationality for management personnel.ES, PT: Nationality requirement for specialized personnel.IT: Nationality requirement in order to obtain necessary authorisation for security guard services and the transport of valuables.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Unbound for airport guard services. Residence requirement for managers.BE: Residence requirement for management personnel.IT: Residence requirement in order to obtain necessary authorisation for security guard services and the transport of valuables.CY, CZ, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
(m)Related scientific and technical consulting services [30] (CPC 8675) | 1.None except FR: Unbound for exploration services.2.None | 1.FR: Unbound for exploration services.DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all surveying services which are performed from abroad.2.None | | 
| 3.FR: "Surveying": Access through a SEL (anonyme, à responsabilité limitée ou en commandite par actions), SCP, SA and SARL only.IT: For certain exploration services activities related to mining (minerals, oil, gas, etc.), exclusive rights may exist.ES: Access to profession of surveyors and geologists through natural persons only.PT: Access restricted to natural persons.IT: Access to profession of surveyors and geologists through natural persons only. Professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted | 3.FR: "Exploration and prospection services" subject to authorisation. | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DE: Conditions of nationality for publicly appointed surveyors.FR: "Surveying" — operations relating to the establishment of property rights and to land law are reserved for EC "experts-géomètres". | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT, PT: Residence requirement. | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. EE: Unbound except for professionals where: university degree and five years working experience in a related field. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. DE: Conditions of nationality for publicly appointed surveyors. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following conditions: DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad. | | 
(n)Maintenance and repair of equipment(not including maritime vessels, aircraft or other transport equipment)(All Member States except EE, LT, LV: CPC 633, 8861, 8866. EE, LT, LV: 633, 8861-8866) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(o)Building-cleaning services (CPC 874) | 1.Unbound [31]2.3) None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.Unbound [31]2 and 3. None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
(p)Photographic services(CPC 875. All Member States excluding CZ, EE, LV, PL: excluding retail. PL: excluding aerial photography) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, LT, PL: Unbound except for aerial photography: noneEE, HU, LV, LT, PL: None2 and 3. None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.All Member States except CZ, HU, LV, LT, PL: Unbound except for aerial photography: noneCZ, HU, LV, LT, PL: None2 and 3. None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(q)Packaging services(CPC 876) | 1.Unbound [32]2 and 3. None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.Unbound2 and 3. None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
(r)Printing and Publishing(CPC 88442) | 1 and 2. None 3.IT: Foreign participation in publishing companies limited to 49 % of capital or of voting rights.LT: Establishment rights in publishing sector granted only to Lithuanian incorporated legal persons.LV: Establishment rights in publishing sector granted only to Latvian incorporated legal personsPL: Nationality requirement for the editor-in-chief of newspapers and journals.SK: Establishment rights in publishing sector granted only to Slovak incorporated legal persons4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:PL: Nationality requirements for the editor-in-chief of newspapers and journals. | 1 and 2. None 3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
(s)Convention services(AT: only exhibition management services) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK and ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
(t)Other | | | | 
Translation Services (CPC 87905) (HU: except official translation. PL: excluding services of sworn interpreters. SK: except authorised public translation and interpretation) | 1 and 2. None 3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:DK: Authorised public translators and interpreters: Citizenship condition unless waived by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency. | 1 and 2. None 3.DK: Authorisation for authorised public translators and interpreters may limit the scope of activity.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:DK: Authorised public translators and interpreters: residence requirement unless waived by the Danish Commerce and Companies Agency. | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, IE, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: EL: Relevant qualifications and five years' professional experience. IT, IE, SE, UK: Relevant qualifications and three years' professional experience. BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. IT, UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, EL, IT, IE, UK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
Interior design services (CPC 87907) [33] | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.DE: Application of the national rules on fees and emoluments for all services which are performed from abroad.2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
2.Communication services | | | | 
Postal and courier services [34] Services relating to the handling [35] of postal items [36] according to the following list of sub-sectors, whether for domestic or foreign destinations. Sub-sectors (i), (iv) and (v) may be excluded when they fall into the scope of the services which may be reserved, which is: for items of correspondence the price of which is less than five times the public basic tariff, provided that they weigh less than 350 grams [37], plus the registered mail service used in the course of judicial or administrative procedures. | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SK, SI: Licensing systems may be established for subsectors (i) to (v) for which a general universal service obligation exists. These licences may be subject to particular universal service obligations and/or financial contribution to a compensation fund. CY, HU, LV, MT, SI: Unbound. EE, LT: Unbound except for (v): None PL: Unbound except for (v): None, excluding written correspondence (e.g. letters). CZ, SK: Unbound except for (v) under mode 2 and 3: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, HU, LV, MT, SI: UnboundCZ, EE, LT, PL, SK: Unbound except for (v) where unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) (PL: excluding written correspondence, e.g. letters) | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SK, SI: None CY, HU, LV, MT, SI: Unbound. EE, LT,: Unbound except for (v): None PL: Unbound except for (v): None, excluding written correspondence (e.g. letters).CZ, SK: Unbound except for (v) under 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, HU, LV, MT, SI: UnboundCZ, EE, LT, PL, SK: Unbound except for (v) where unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) (PL: excluding written correspondence, e.g. letters)mode 2 and 3: None | Independent national regulatory authorities have been established to ensure compliance with postal regulation and to deal with conflicts between commercial partners (public or private). The right to a postal universal service is ensured. | 
(i)Handling of addressed written communications on any kind of physical medium [38], includingHybrid mail serviceDirect mail(ii)Handling of addressed parcels and packages [39](iii)Handling of addressed press products [40](iv)Handling of items referred to in (i) to (iii) above as registered or insured mail(v)Express delivery services [41] for items referred to in (i) to (iii) above(vi)Handling of non-addressed items(vii)Document exchange [42](viii)Other services not elsewhere specified | | | | 
2.C.Telecommunications services | | | | 
Telecommunications services are the transport of electro-magnetic signals - sound, data image and any combinations thereof, excluding broadcasting [43]. Therefore, commitments in this schedule do not cover the economic activity consisting of content provision which require telecommunications services for its transport. The provision of that content, transported via a telecommunications service, is subject to the specific commitments undertaken by the Community and its Member States in other relevant sectors. | 
Domestic and international Domestic and international services provided using any network technology, on a facilities based or resale basis, for public and non-public use, in the following market segments (these correspond to the following CPC numbers: 7521, 7522, 7523, 7524 [44], 7525, 7526 and 7529 [44], broadcasting is excluded): | | | | 
(a)Voice telephone services(b)Packet switched data transmission services | 1 and 2. PL: For telecommunications services provided using cable television and radio network services: Unbound 3.PL: For telecommunications services provided using cable television and radio network services: The limitation of foreign capital and voting rights is 49 %.SI: Foreign participation may not exceed 99 % of the equity. Licence for operation granted is subject to obligations of value-added telecommunication service providers, to use basic telecommunications network. | 1, 2 and 3. None | BE: Licensing conditions may address the need to guarantee universal service, including through financing, in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and will not be more burdensome than necessary. | 
(c)Circuit-switched data transmissions services(d)Telex services(e)Telegraph services | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
(f)Facsimile services(g)Leased circuit services(h)Electronic mail | | | | 
(i)Voice mail(j)On-line information and database retrieval | | | | 
(k)Electronic data interchange (EDI)(l)Enhanced/value added facsimile services, including store and forward, store and retrieve(m)Code and protocol conversion | | | | 
(o)Other services: mobile and personal communications services and systems | 1 and 2. For paging: Unbound except pan-European paging systems. 3.PL: For public cellular mobile telephone services and networks: None except that the limitation of foreign capital and voting rights is 49 %.SI: Foreign participation may not exceed 99 % of the equity. Licence for operation granted is subject to obligations of value-added telecommunication service providers, to use basic telecommunications network.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1, 2 and 3. None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | BE: Licensing conditions may address the need to guarantee universal service, including through financing, in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and will not be more burdensome than necessary. | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
3.Construction and related engineering services | | | | 
(CPC 511, 512, 513, 514, 515, 516, 517, 518) | 1.Unbound [45] except for 5111 and 5114: noneHU, MT: Unbound2.HU, MT: Unbound3.HU, MT: UnboundI: Exclusive rights are granted for construction, maintenance and management of highways and the airport of Rome.4)Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU, MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [45] except for CPC 5111 and 5114: noneHU, MT: Unbound2.HU, MT: Unbound3.HU, MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU, MT: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DK, ES, FR and NL where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: NL: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. FR: Unbound except for measures concerning the temporary entry of technicians under the following conditions: the technician is an employee of a legal person within the territory of Chile and is transferred to a commercial presence in FR who has a contract with that legal person;the work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding six months;the technician presents a work certificate from the commercial presence in FR and a letter from the legal person within the territory of Chile demonstrating its agreement to the transfer;compliance with an economic needs test is required;the commercial presence body must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DK, ES, FR and NL where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
| Unbound except for DE, SE and UK where as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii), only for CPC 5111, and subject to the following specific limitations: SE, UK: University degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. UK: Compliance with an economic needs test is required. DE: Unbound except for limited range of services of site investigation work where: university degree and professional qualifications and three years' professional experience in the sector. | Unbound except for DE, SE and UK where as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii), only for CPC 5111 | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
4.Distribution services [46] | | | | 
A.Commission Agents' Services(CPC 621, 6111, 6113, 6121) | 1.FR: Unbound for traders and brokers working in market of national interest.MT: Unbound2.MT: Unbound3.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:MT: UnboundFR: Condition of nationality for activities of traders, commissioners, and brokers working in 20 markets of national interest | 1.FR: Unbound for traders and brokers working in market of national interest.2.MT: Unbound3.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:MT: UnboundIT: Residence requirement. | | 
B.Wholesale Trade Services(All Member States excluding PL: CPC 622, 61111, 6113, 6121. PL: CPC 622 excluding 62226, 62228, 62251, 62252) | 1.FR [47]:Unbound for pharmacies.MT: Unbound2.MT: Unbound3.FR [48]: Wholesale pharmacies are authorised according to the needs of the population and within established quotas.PL: Licensing of establishment of companies in the area of wholesale trade in imported consumer goods.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:MT: UnboundFR: Condition of nationality for wholesale of pharmaceuticals. | 1.MT: Unbound2.MT: Unbound3.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:MT: UnboundIT: Residence requirement. | | 
C. Retailing Services [49](CPC 631, 632, 61112, 6113, 6121, 613) | 1.MT: Unbound2.MT: Unbound3. BE [50] [51], DK, FR, IT, PT: economic needs test on department stores applied on a national treatment basis.SE: Individual municipalities may apply economic needs test to temporary trade in clothing, shoes and foodstuffs that are not consumed at the point of sale [52]MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii), and subject to the following specific limitations:MT: UnboundFR: Condition of nationality for tobacconists (i.e. buralistes). | 1.MT: Unbound2.MT: Unbound3.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
D.Franchising(CPC 8929 | 1, 2 and 3. MT: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1, 2 and 3. MT: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
5.Privately funded education services | | | | 
A.Primary Education Services(All Member States except EE: CPC 921. EE: Compulsory primary education services) | 1.FR: Condition of nationality. However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.2.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.3.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.CZ: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. Condition of ensuring quality and level of education and suitability of school facilities.HU: Establishment of schools is subject to licence from the local authorities.SK: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach subject to complying with qualification and material requirements on establishment of such an institution.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.FR: Condition of nationality. However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. | 1.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.2.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.3.CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound.CZ: None other than: majority of members of the Board must be of Czech nationality.LT: None, except for permit issued by the Ministry of Education and Science for the State recognised teaching institutions required.SK: None other than: majority of members of the Board have to be of Slovak citizenship.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE, SI: Unbound | | 
B.Secondary education services(All Member States except EE: CPC 922. EE: compulsory and non compulsory secondary education services. LV: Excluding CPC 9224) | 1.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.FR: Condition of nationality. However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach.2.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.3.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.CZ: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. Condition of ensuring quality and level of education and suitability of school facilities.HU: Establishment of schools is subject to licence from the local authorities.SK: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach subject to complying with qualification and material requirements on establishment of such an institution.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.FR: Condition of nationality. However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. | 1.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound2.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound3.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound.LT: None, except for permit issued by the Ministry of Education and Science for the State recognised teaching institutions required.SI: None other than: majority of the Board must be of Slovenian nationalitySK: None other than: majority of members of the Board have to be of Slovak citizenship.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound. | | 
C.Higher Education Services(All Member States except CZ and SK: CPC 923. CZ and SK: Only CPC 92310) | 1.FR: Condition of nationality. However, third country nationals can have authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound2.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound3.ES, IT: Needs test for opening of private universities authorised to issue recognised diplomas or degrees.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: UnboundEL: Unbound for education institutions granting recognized State diplomas.CZ: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. Condition of ensuring quality and level of education and suitability of school facilities.HU: Establishment of schools is subject to licence from the central authorities.SK: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach subject to complying with qualification and material requirements on establishment of such an institution.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: UnboundFR: Condition of nationality. However, third country nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. | 1.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound2.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound3.AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: UnboundSI: None other than: majority of the Board must be of Slovenian nationalitySK: None other than: majority of members of the Board have to be of Slovak citizenship.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, FR and LU concerning the temporary entry of professors where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge, and three years professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. FR: The professors have obtained an employment contract from a university or other higher education institution.The work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding nine months renewable for the duration of the contract.Compliance with an economic needs test is required unless those professors are designated directly by the Minister in charge of higher education.The recruiting institution must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES, FR and LU as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
| For HU only: Personalities of internationally recognized reputation who have been invited by higher education institutions for the duration of the invitation. | | | 
D.Adult education services (CPC 924; for AT CPC 9240 except education services for adults by means of radio or television broadcasting. For EE: it also covers other adult education services not provided by the State) | 1 and 2. CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound 3.CZ: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach. Condition of ensuring quality and level of education and suitability of school facilities.HU: Establishment of schools is subject to licence from the local (or in case of high schools from the central) authorities.SK: Foreign nationals may obtain authorisation from competent authorities to establish and direct an education institution and to teach subject to complying with qualification and material requirements on establishment of such an institution.CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound | 1 and 2. CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound 3.CY, FI, MT, SE: UnboundCZ: None other than: majority of members of the Board must be of Czech nationality.SK: None other than: majority of members of the Board have to be of Slovak citizenship.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, FI, MT, SE: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
6.Environmental services [53] | | | | 
(SE: the offer does not include public works functions whether owned and operated by municipalities, state or federal governments or contracted out by these governments) | | | | 
A.Water for human use and wastewater managementWater collection, purification and distribution services through mains, except steam %amp% hot water. | 1.Unbound [54]2.None except CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: unbound.3.None except AT, DE, UK, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | 1.Unbound [54]2.None except CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.3.None except AT, DE, UK, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
Wastewater services (CPC 9401, part of 18000) | 1.All Member States except EE, LT, LV: UnboundEE, LT, LV: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | 1.All Member States except EE, LT, LV: UnboundEE, LT, LV: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitationsHU: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
B.Solid/hazardous waste management (CPC 9402, 9403) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None2 and 3. None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None2 and 3. None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30 000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
C.Protection of ambient air and climate(CPC 9404) | 1.All Member States except EE, LT, PL: UnboundEE, LT, PL: None2.None3.SE: Government owned monopoly for control services of exhaust-gas from cars and trucks. Such services must be offered on a non-profit basis.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.All Member States except EE, LT, PL: UnboundEE, LT, PL: None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
D.Remediation and clean up of soil and waters (part of CPC 94060) | 1.All Member States except EE: UnboundEE: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | 1.All Member States except EE: UnboundEE: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic needs test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
E.Noise and vibration abatement (CPC 9405) | 1.All Member States except EE, LT, PL: UnboundEE, LT, PL: None2 and 3. None except for CY, CZ, HU, SK, SI, UK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | 1.All Member States except EE, LT, PL: UnboundEE, LT, PL: None2 and 3. None except for CY, CZ, HU, SK, SI, UK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years, professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
F.Protection of biodiversity and landscape nature and landscape protection services(CPC 9406) | 1.All Member States except EE: UnboundEE: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | 1.All Member States except EE: UnboundEE: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
G.Other environmental and ancillary services (part of CPC 94090) | 1.All Member States except EE, PL: UnboundEE, PL: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | 1.All Member States except EE, PL: UnboundEE, PL: None2 and 3. HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:HU: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of 30000 Euro. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
7.Health services and social services | | | | 
A.Hospital services(all Member States except LV, PL and SI: CPC 9311.LV, PL and SI: only Private hospital and sanatorium services - CPC 9311 | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.CZ, MT, FI, SE, SK: Unbound3.AT, BE, ES, FR, IT, LU, LT, NL, PT, SI: economic needs test applied on a national treatment basis [55].PL: Head, or his deputy, of the health facility should meet qualifications of medical doctor. All the limitations pertaining to medical, and dental services, as well as services of midwives, nurses are applicable.LV: The head, or his deputy, of the health facility should be qualified as a medical doctor. All the limitations pertaining to medical, and dental services, as well as services of midwives and nurses are applicable. Private hospital services need authorisation by local health authorities. The number of beds and use of heavy medical equipment is based on the needs of population, age scale and death rate.CZ, MT, FI, SE, SK: UnboundSI: Entry into public Health network is subject to concession from Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.CZ, MT, FI, SE, SK: Unbound3.CZ, MT, FI, SE, SK: UnboundEE: None except professionals trained outside Estonia are required to present a certificate of auxiliary training courses of Tartu University. This requirement also applies to Estonian nationals trained abroad.LT: None, except foreign private establishment and their consumers may not be entitled to receive financial support from public resources, including usage of public medical insurance funds. | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CZ, MT, FI, SE, SK: UnboundLV: The head, or his deputy, of the health facility should be qualified as a medical doctor. All the limitations pertaining to medical, and dental services, as well as services of midwives and nurses are applicable.PL: Head, or his deputy, of the health facility should meet qualifications of medical doctor. All the limitations pertaining to medical, and dental services, as well as services of midwives, nurses are applicable | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CZ, MT, FI, SE, SK: Unbound | | 
B.Other human health services (CPC 9319. EE: CPC 9319 other than 93191) | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2 and 3. Unbound except for AT, EE, HU, SI: none4.Unbound except AT, EE, HU, SI: unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2 and 3. Unbound except for AT, EE, HU, SI: none4.Unbound except AT, EE, HU, SI: unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
C.Social ServicesConvalescent andRest Houses, Old People's Homes | 1.Unbound2.CZ, HU, FI, MT, PL, SI, SK, SE: Unbound3.CZ, HU, FI, MT, PL, SI, SK, SE: UnboundFR: Provision of services is permitted by the competent authorities according to local needs.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CZ, HU, FI, MT, PL, SI, SK, SE: Unbound | 1.Unbound2.CZ, HU, FI, MT, PL, SI, SK, SE: Unbound3.CZ, HU, FI, MT, PL, SI, SK, SE: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CZ, HU, FI, MT, PL, SI, SK, SE: Unbound | | 
D.Other (health related services) | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except HU: Unbound HU: None 4.All Member States: Unbound except for HU: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except HU: Unbound HU: None. 4.All Member States: Unbound except for HU: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
8.Tourism and travel related services | | | | 
A.Hotels, Restaurantsand Catering(CPC 641, 642, 643. PL: excluding CPC 643)(excluding catering in transport services sector except in PL) | 1.Unbound except for catering: none2.None3.IT: Local economic needs test on opening of new bars, cafés and restaurants. | 1.Unbound except for catering: none2.None3.None | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
B.Travel Agencies and Tour Operators Services (including tour managers)(CPC 7471) | 1.HU: UnboundPL: Commercial presence required.2.None3.PT: Requirement of constitution of a commercial company having its corporate base in Portugal.IT: Economic needs test.FI: A permission from the National Consumer Administration is required.CZ: Economic needs test based on population criterion. | 1.PL: Commercial presence required.2.None3.None | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, IT, FI, IE, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: AT, FI, IT, IE, SE: Unbound except for tour managers (persons whose function is to accompany a tour group of a minimum of 10 persons, without acting as guides in specific locations) where for AT, IT, IE, SE: professional certificate and three years' professional experience. BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification and three years professional experience. IT: Compliance with an economic needs test is required | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES, IT, FI, IE, SE where: as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
C.Tourist guides services (CPC 7472) | 1.CY, HU, IT, LT, MT, PT, PL, SI: Unbound.2.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:ES, IT: The right to exercise the profession is reserved for the local organisations of tourist guides.EL, ES, IT, PT: Access to the activity is subject to condition of nationality.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | 1.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound2.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions and the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. SE: Professional certificate, relevant qualifications and three years' professional experience. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, SE as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
9.Recreational, cultural and sporting services (other than audio-visual services) | | | | 
A.Entertainment services(including theatre, live bands and circus services)(CPC 9619) | 1.Unbound2.CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, EE, FI, LV, PL, SI, SK: UnboundLT: None, except prohibition to establish and maintain gambling houses, to organise gambling games [56].4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: UnboundIT: Economic needs test. | 1.All Member States except HU: Unbound.HU: None2.CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.CY, CZ, FI, LV, PL, SI, SK: UnboundFR, IT: Unbound for subsidies and any other forms of direct and indirect support.SE: Targeted financial support to specific local, regional or national activities.LT: None, except:(a)as indicated under market access (also exception indicated in Part I regarding prohibition of foreign investments to lotteries); and (b)Unbound for subsidies as regards cinema operation theatre (CPC 96199**).4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, EE, FI, LT, LV, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
| Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES and FR concerning the temporary entry of artist where as indicated under the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. | Unbound except for AT, BE, DE, DK, ES and FR concerning the temporary entry of artist where as indicated under the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
| BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. AT, ES: access is limited to persons whose main professional activity is in the field of fine arts, deriving the major part of their income from that activity. such persons shall not exercise any other commercial activity in Austria. FR: The artists have obtained an employment contract from an authorised entertainment enterprise.The work permit is delivered for a period not exceeding nine months renewable for a duration of three months.Compliance with an economic needs test is required.The entertainment enterprise must pay a tax to the International Migration Office. | | | 
B.News and press agency | 1.None | 1.None | | 
Services (CPC 962) | 2.None3.FR: Condition of nationality for administrators of Agence France Press. (other restrictions lifted if reciprocity granted)I: Special anti-concentration rules operate in the daily press and broadcasting sectors, specific limits are fixed to multimedia ownership. Foreign companies may not control publishing or broadcasting companies: foreign equity participation limited to 49 %.HU: UnboundPT: News companies, incorporated in Portugal in legal form of "Sociedade Anónima", must have the social capital in the form of nominal stock.SK: foreign suppliers of news and press agency services must be accredited at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Slovak Republic. The official press agency of the Slovak Republic (TASR) is subject of state financing.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 2.None3.HU: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
| Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) and subject to the above conditions following specific limitations: BE, DE, DK, ES: University degree or equivalent technical qualification demonstrating knowledge and three years' professional experience in the sector. BE: Economic Needs Test is required if the gross annual salary of the natural person is below the threshold of EUR 30000. | Unbound except for BE, DE, DK, ES as indicated in the horizontal section under (iii) | | 
C.Libraries, archives, museums and other cultural services (CPC 963) | 1.Unbound except in AT: none2.Unbound except in AT, EE: none3.Unbound except in AT, LTAT: NoneLT: Licenses for researching, reservation and restoration of the immovable cultural values, for preparation of the conditions, programmes and projects of such works, for preservation and restoration of movable cultural values are necessary.4.Unbound except in AT, EE: unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.Unbound except in AT: none2.Unbound except in AT, EE: none3.Unbound except in AT, LTAT: NoneLT: None except under market access4.Unbound except in AT, EE, LT: unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
D.Sporting and Other Recreational Services other than Gambling and Betting Services(CPC 9641, 96491. AT: ski school services and mountain guide services are not covered) | 1.MT: Unbound2.MT: Unbound3.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:MT: UnboundIT: Economic needs test. | 1.MT: Unbound2.MT: Unbound3.MT: UnboundSE: Targeted financial support to specific local, regional or national activities4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
II.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS | 
10.Transport services | | | | 
A.Maritime transport services | (see additional definitions after the transport section) | | | 
International transport (freight and passengers) CPC 7211 and 7212 less cabotage transport | 1.(a)Liner shipping: none(b)Bulk, tramp, and other international shipping, including passenger transportation; none2.None3.(a)Establishment of registered company for the purpose of operating a fleet under the national flag of the State of establishment: unbound for all Member States except LV and MT: None(b)Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services (as defined below under Definitions concerning maritime transport): none4.(a)Ships' crews: unbound(b)Key personnel employed in relation to a commercial presence as defined under mode 3(b) above: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.(a)Mode 1 (a) Liner trade: none, other than the exceptional case where a Member States would have to enforce EC Regulation 954/79, article 2, par. 2.(b)None2.None3.(a)Unbound for all Member States except LV and MT: None(b)None4.(a)Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii)(b)Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | See footnote [57] | 
Maritime auxiliary services | | | | 
Maritime cargo handling services | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
Storage and warehousing services CPC 742 (as amended) | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
Customs clearance services [60] | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59]MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
Container station and depot services [61] | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59]MT: Unbound4)Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59]MT: Unbound4)Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
Maritime agency services [62] | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
(Maritime) freight forwarding services [63] | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. [59] MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
(d)Maintenance and repair of vessels, except for EE, LV and SI.EE and LV: CPC 8868.SI: CPC 8868 [59] | 1.All Member States except EE, HU and LV: Unbound.EE, HU and LV: None2.All Member States except EE, HU, LV and SI: Unbound.EE, HU, LV and SI: None3.All Member States except EE, HU, LV and SI: Unbound.EE, HU, LV and SI: NoneUnbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except EE, HU, LV and SI: Unbound.EE, HU, LV and SI: Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal section | 1.All Member States except EE, HU and LV: Unbound.EE, HU and LV: None2.All Member States except EE, HU, LV and SI: Unbound.EE, HU, LV and SI: None3.All Member States except EE, HU, LV and SI: Unbound.EE, HU, LV and SI: NoneUnbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except EE, HU, LV and SI: Unbound.EE, HU and SI: Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal sectionLV: None | | 
B.Internal waterways transport | 1 and 3. None, other than measures based upon existing or future agreements on access to inland waterways (incl. agreements following the Rhine-Main-Danube link), which reserve some traffic rights for operators based in the countries concerned and meeting nationality criteria regarding ownership. Regulations implementing the Mannheim Convention on Rhine Shipping. | 1 and 3. None, other than measures based upon existing or future agreements on access to inland waterways (including agreements following the Rhine-Main-Danube link), which reserve some traffic rights for operators based in the countries concerned and meeting nationality criteria regarding ownership. Regulations implementing the Mannheim Convention on Rhine Shipping. | See footnote [64] | 
(b)Freight transportation(c)Rental of vessels with crew | AT: According to the Austrian Inland Waterways Shipping Act the setting up of a shipping company by natural persons requires EEA (European Economic Area) citizenship. In the case of establishment as legal person, the majority of managing directors, the managing board and the supervisory board must be EEA citizens. In addition the majority of the business shares must be held by EEA citizens. CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound 2.None except CY, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound 2.None except CY, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | | 
(f)Supporting services for internal waterway transport(d)Maintenance and repair of vessels | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.None except CY, EE, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.None except CZ, CY, EE, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, EE, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, EE, HU, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2. None except EE, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound3.None except CZ, EE, LT, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations: CZ, EE, LT, MT, PL, SI: Unbound | | 
C.Air transport services | | | | 
(c)Rental of aircraft with crew(CPC 734 | 1 and 2. All Member States except PL: Unbound PL: None except that aircraft used by Community air carriers have to be registered in the Member State licensing the air carrier or elsewhere in the Community. Waivers can be granted for short term lease contracts or under exceptional circumstances. 3.All Member States except PL: UnboundPL: None except that aircraft used by Community carriers have to be registered in the aircraft register of that Member State, the aircraft must be owned either by natural persons meeting specific nationality criteria or by juridical persons meeting specific regarding ownership of capital and control (including nationality of directors).4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except PL: UnboundPL: Unbound except for horizontal measures | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except PL: Unbound PL: None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except PL: UnboundPL: None | | 
(d)Maintenance and repair of aircraft and parts thereof | 1.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, PL: UnboundEE, HU, LV, PL: None2.None3.CZ: Corporate seat required in the Czech RepublicSK: Corporate seat is required in the Slovak Republic4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU, LV, PL: UnboundEE, HU, LV, PL: None2.None3.CZ: Corporate seat required in the Czech RepublicSK: Corporate seat is required in the Slovak Republic4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
Sales and marketing | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.For distribution through CRS of air transport services provided by CRS parent carrier: unbound.2.None3.For distribution through CRS of air transport services provided by CRS parent carrier: unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
Computer reservations system | 1.None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.For obligations of parent or participating carriers in respect of a CRS controlled by an air carrier of one or more third countries: unbound.2.None3.For obligations of parent or participating carriers in respect of a CRS controlled by an air carrier of one or more third countries: unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
E.Rail transport services | | | | 
(a)Passenger transportation | 1.All Member States: Unbound2.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None3.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Services may be provided through a Contract of Concession granted by the state or the local authority4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Unbound except as indicated in horizontal section. | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except HU: Unbound HU: None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Unbound except as indicated in horizontal section. | | 
b)Freight transportation | 1.All Member States: Unbound2.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None3.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Services may be provided through a Contract of Concession granted by the state or the local authority4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Unbound except as indicated in horizontal section. | 1, 2 and 3. All Member States except HU: Unbound HU: None 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: Unbound except as indicated in horizontal section. | | 
(d)Maintenance and repair of rail transport equipment(CPC 8868) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | 1.All Member States except EE, HU: UnboundEE, HU: None2.None3.None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) | | 
F.Road transport services | | | | 
(a)Passenger transportation(All Member States except FI, LV, LT: CPC 71213 and 7122. FI: CPC 71222 and 71223.LV: CPC 71213, 71222, 71223.LT: CPC 7121, 7122).For LV, LT: cabotage excluded. | 1.Unbound2.None except CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.3.For transport within a Member State (cabotage), by a carrier established outside that Member State: unbound except for rental of non-scheduled services of buses with operator (71223) [65] where no limitation will apply as from 1996.AT, HU, PL, MT, SK: UnboundSE: Authorisation required for commercial land transport service operations. Authorisation is based on the applicants financial situation, experience and capability to supply the services. Limitations on the use of leased vehicles for such operations.For 7122:ES: Economic needs test. | 1.Unbound2.None except, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound.3.Unbound for transport within a Member State (cabotage), by a carrier established outside that Member State.AT, HU, MT, PL, SK: UnboundLV, SE: Requirement on established entities to use vehicles with national registration. | | 
| For 71221 (taxi services):All Member States except in SE: economic needs test [66],plus | | | 
| DK: Access for natural persons only, and local establishment requirement. IT: Access for natural persons only. | | | 
| For 71222 (limousine services): DK: Access for natural persons only, and local establishment requirement. FI: Authorisation required, not extended to foreign registered vehicles. IT: Access for natural persons only, and economic needs test. LV: Authorisation required (licence), not extended to foreign registered vehicles. PT: Economic needs test. For 71213 (Intercity bussing services) [67]IT, ES, IE: Economic needs test.FR: Unbound.FI: Authorisation required, not extended to foreign registered vehicles.DK: Economic needs testLV: Authorisation required (licence and special permit), not extended to foreign registered vehicles.PT: Access through incorporation only.For 71223:LV: Authorisation required (licence), not extended to foreign registered vehicles. | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: UnboundPT: Nationality requirement for specialist personnel. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, LV PL, SI, SK: UnboundDK: Residence requirement for managers | | 
(b)Freight Transportation(CPC 7123) | 1.Unbound2.None except CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound3.For transport within a Member State by a carrier established in another Member State: unbound.AT, CY, CZ, ES, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI, SK: UnboundIT: For transport within the country, licensing subject to an economic needs test.FI: Authorisation required, not extended to foreign registered vehicles.SE: Authorisation required for commercial land transport service operations. Authorisation is based on the applicants financial situation, experience and capability to supply the services. Limitations on the use of leased vehicles for such operations.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, MT, PL, SI and SK: Unbound | 1.Unbound2.HU, MT, PL, SK: unbound3.Unbound for transport within a Member State by a carrier established in another Member State.AT, ES, HU, PL, MT, SK: Unbound.SE: Requirement on established utilities to use vehicles with national registration.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LV, MT, PL, SI, SK: Unbound | | 
(d)Maintenance and Repair of Road Transport Equipment(All Member States except CZ, EE, FI, HU, SI and SK: CPC 6112.CZ, EE, HU and SK: 6112+8867.FI 6112 and parts of 88. SI: part of CPC 6112 [59]) | 1.Unbound [58]2.MT: Unbound3.SE: Operators allowed to establish and maintain their own terminal infrastructure facilities, subject to space and capacity constraints.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2.MT: Unbound3.MT: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:MT: Unbound | | 
(e)Supporting services for road transport equipment(For LV only:CPC 7441, CPC 7449) | 1.All Member States: Unbound2.All Member States except LV: UnboundLV: None3.All Member States except LV: UnboundLV: Authorisation required (agreement with bus station, licence).4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except LV: UnboundLV: Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal section | 1.All Member States: Unbound2.All Member States except LV: UnboundLV: None3.All Member States except LV: UnboundLV: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except LV: UnboundLV: None LV: For CSS-EJP only: None | | 
G.Pipeline TransportLT: CPC 713 | 1.All Member States: Unbound2.All Member States except HU, LT: UnboundHU, LT: None3.All Member States except HU, LT: UnboundHU: Services may be provided through a Contract of Concession granted by the State or the local authorityLT: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except HU, LT: UnboundHU, LT: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section | 1.All Member States except HU: UnboundHU: None2.All Member States: UnboundHU, LT: None3.All Member States except HU, LT: UnboundHU, LT: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except HU, LT: UnboundHU, LT: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section | | 
H.Services auxiliary to all modes of transport | | | | 
(a)Cargo-handling services(EE, LV and LT: CPC 741) | 1.All Member States except EE, LV and LT: Unbound [58]EE, LV and LT: None2.All Member States except EE, LV and LT: UnboundEE, LV and LT: None3.All Member States except EE, LV and LT: UnboundEE, LV and LT: None except in airports where categories of activities committed depend of size of airport, the number of providers in each airport can be limited due to available- space constraints and to not less than two suppliers for other reasons, and non-discriminatory pre-approval procedures may apply.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except EE, LV and LT: Unbound.EE, LV and LT: Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal section | 1.All Member States except EE, LV: Unbound [58].EE, LV: None2.All Member States except EE, LV and LT: UnboundEE, LV and LT: None3.All Member States except EE, LV and LT: UnboundEE, LV and LT: None4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:All Member States except EE, LV and LT: Unbound.EE and LT: Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal sectionLV: None | | 
(b)Storage and warehouse services (CPC 742)(other than in ports) | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. CY, CZ, MT, LT, PL, SK and SE: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, MT, LT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1.Unbound [58]2 and 3. CY, CZ, MT, LT, PL, SK and SE: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, MT, LT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
(c)Freight transport agency/freight forwarding services (CPC 748) | 1.2 and 3. CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK and SE: Unbound4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1.CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK and SE: UnboundSI: None other than customs clearance is subject to limitation to juridical person established in the Republic of Slovenia2.CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK and SE: Unbound3.CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK and SE: UnboundSI: None other than customs clearance is subject to limitation to juridical person established in the Republic of Slovenia4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
Pre-shipment inspection (CPC 749 [68] except for FI: CPC 7490 only) | 1, 2 and 3. CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SE, SK: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | 1, 2 and 3. CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SE, SK: Unbound 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:CY, CZ, HU, MT, PL, SK: Unbound | | 
I.Other transport services(provision of combined transport service) | 1.Unbound except for FI: none2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound3.None, without prejudice to the limitations affecting any given mode of transport except in AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound. | 1.Unbound except for FI: none2.CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound3.None, without prejudice to the limitations affecting any given mode of transport except in AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: unbound.4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following limitations:AT, CY, CZ, EE, HU, LT, LV, MT, PL, SE, SI, SK: Unbound. | | 
Definitions concerning maritime transport 
1. Without prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as "cabotage" under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include "maritime cabotage services", which are assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port located in a Member State and another port located in the same Member State and traffic originating and terminating in the same port located in a Member State provided that this traffic remains within this Member State's territorial waters. 
2. "Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services" means the ability of international maritime transport service suppliers of the other Party to undertake locally all activities which are necessary for the supply to their customers of a partially or fully integrated transport service within which the maritime transport constitutes a substantial element. (This commitment shall not, however, be construed as limiting in any manner the commitments undertaken under the cross-border mode of delivery). 
(a) marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services through direct contact with customers, from quotation to invoicing, these services being those operated or offered by the service supplier itself or by service suppliers with which the service seller has established standing business arrangements; 
(b) the acquisition, on their own account or on behalf or their customers (and the resale to their customers) of any transport and related services, including inward transport services by any mode, particularly inland waterways, road and rail, necessary for the supply of the integrated services; 
(c) the preparation of documentation concerning transport documents, customs documents, or other documents related to the origin and character of the goods transported; 
(d) the provision of business information by any means, including computerised information systems and electronic data interchange (subject to the provisions of this Agreement); 
(e) the setting up of any business arrangements (including participation in the stock of a company) and the appointment of personnel recruited locally (or, in the case of foreign personnel, subject to the horizontal commitment on movement of personnel) with any locally established shipping agency; 
(f) acting on behalf of the companies, organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required. 
3. "Multimodal transport operators" means the person on whose behalf the bill of lading/multimodal transport document, or any other document evidencing a contract of multimodal carriage of goods, is issued and who is responsible for the carriage of goods pursuant to the contract of carriage. 
Community (continued) 
Attachment A 
GLOSSARY 
TERMS USED FOR INDIVIDUAL MEMBER STATES 
France 
SC Société civile 
SCP Société civile professionnelle 
SEL Société d'exercice libéral 
SNC Société en nom collectif 
SCS Société en commandite simple 
SARL Société à responsabilité limitée 
SCA Société en commandite par actions 
SA Société anonyme 
NB: Toutes ces sociétés sont dotées de la personnalité morale 
Germany 
GmbH %amp% Co. KG Kommanditgesellschaft, bei der der persönlich haftende Gesellschafter eine GmbH (a stock company with limited responsibility) ist. 
EWIV Europäische Wirtschaftliche Interessenvereinigung (European economic interest grouping) 
Italy 
SPA Società per Azioni (joint stock company) 
SRL Società a Responsabilità Limitata (company with limited responsibility) 
For Italy the following professional services are covered in the EC offer: 
Ragionieri-periti commerciali Bookkeeping, accounting, auditing 
Commercialisti Bookkeeping, accounting, auditing 
Geometri Surveyors 
Ingegneri Engineers 
Architetti Architects 
Geologi Geologists 
Medici Doctors 
Farmacisti Pharmacists 
Psicologi Psychologists 
Veterinari Veterinarians 
Biologi Biologists 
Chimici Chemists 
Periti agrari Agricultural experts 
Agronomi Agronomists 
Attuari Actuarists 
[1] In the case of Austria, Finland and Sweden no horizontal reservation has been taken for services considered as public utilities 
[2] Explanatory note: public utilities exist in sectors such as related scientific and technical consulting services, R %amp% D services on social sciences and humanities, technical testing and analysis services, environmental services, health services, transport services and services auxiliary to all modes of transport. Exclusive rights on such services are often granted to private operators, for instance operators with concessions from public authorities, subject to specific service obligations. Given that public utilities often also exist at the sub-central level, detailed and exhaustive sector-specific scheduling is not practical. 
[3] Exceptions from these requirements may be granted, if it can be proved that residency is not necessary. 
[4] SI: According to the Law on Commercial Companies, a branch established in the Republic of Slovenia is not considered a juridical person, but as regards their operation, their treatment is equal to a subsidiary. 
[5] Commercial, industrial or artisanal activities relate to sectors such as: other business services, construction, distribution and tourism services. It does not relate to telecommunications and financial services. 
[6] CZ: Non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange control is applied consisting of:(a)limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes;(b)foreign exchange authorisation in case of Czech residents for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investment abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchases of foreign securities. 
[7] PL: There is non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange controls relating to limitations in foreign exchange turnover and to system of foreign exchange permits (general and individual) among others limitations of capital flows and currency payments. The following foreign exchange transactions require authorisation:transfer of foreign exchange out of the country,transfer of Polish currency into the country,ownership transfer of the right to monetary assets between domestic and foreign persons,granting and drawing of loans and credits by domestic persons in foreign exchange transactions,fixing or executing payments in foreign currencies within Poland for acquired goods, real estate, property rights, services or labour;opening and possessing of a banking account in a bank situated abroad,acquiring and holding foreign securities and acquiring real estate abroad,undertaking other obligations abroad of similar effect. 
[8] SK: Entries being listed for transparency reasons. 
[9] PL: The footnote under market access is also applicable for national treatment. 
[10] The duration of "temporary stay" is defined by the Member States and, where they exist, Community laws and regulations regarding entry, stay and work. The precise duration can vary according to the different categories of natural persons mentioned in this schedule. For category (i), the length of stay is limited in the following Member States as follows: EE — three years, which may be extended for up to two additional years for a total term not to exceed five years; LV — five years; LT — three years, extendable in the case of senior personnel only for up to two additional years; PL and SI — one year, which may be extended. For category (ii), the length of stay is limited in the following Member States as follows: EE — 90 days per six-month period; PL — three months; LT — three months a year; HU, LV, SI — 90 days. 
[11] All other requirements of Community and Member States' laws and regulations regarding entry, stay, work and social security measures shall continue to apply, including regulations concerning period of stay, minimum wages as well as collective wage agreements. 
[12] An "intra-corporate transferee" is defined as a natural person working within a legal person, other than a non-profit making organisation, established in the territory of Chile, and being temporarily transferred in the context of the provision of a service through commercial presence in the territory of a Member State; the legal persons concerned must have their principal place of business in the territory of Chile and the transfer must be to an establishment (office, branch or subsidiary) of that legal person, effectively providing like services in the territory of a Member State to which the EC Treaty applies. 
[13] The service contract shall comply with the laws, regulations and requirements of the Community and the Member State where the service contract is executed. 
[14] When not appearing under the title "Advokat", or as an EEA lawyer under his or her home-country corresponding title, foreign lawyers may freely offer legal advice activities. 
[15] Access to these professions is governed by the French law No 90-1259 of 31 December 1990 which opens the entire range of legal and judicial activities. 
[16] International law includes also EC law. 
[17] Access to these professions is governed by the French law No 90-1259 of 31 December 1990 which opens the entire range of legal and judicial activities. 
[18] Explanatory note: Given the fact that commercial presence is required to exercise any auditing activity, the cross-border mode is unbound. Only established statutory auditors can be approved by the national professional bodies. Approval is a necessary precondition to exercising the activity. 
[19] SI: According to Slovene law, auditing services are a matter of firms, not natural persons. 
[20] Foreign exams and experience giving equivalent competence are recognised. 
[21] Indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
[22] Establishment in the form of legal persons is subject to authorisation by Ministry of Health. Entry into public Health Network is subject to a concession from the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. 
[23] Indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
[24] Where the establishment of pharmacies is subject to an economic needs test, the main criteria taken into account are: the population, the number of existing pharmacies and their geographical density. These criteria are applied on a national treatment basis except for F. 
[25] Additional commitment: in I, professional association (no incorporation) among natural persons is permitted. 
[26] The Service involved relates to the profession of real estate agents and does not affect any rights and/or restrictions on natural and legal persons purchasing real estate. 
[27] The service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
[28] LV: Service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
[29] SI: Public utility exist; concession rights can be granted to the private operators established in the Republic of Slovenia. 
[30] The service involved excludes operation of mines. 
[31] A commitment on this mode of supply is not feasible. 
[32] A commitment on this mode of supply is not feasible. 
[33] Indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
[34] The commitment is listed according to the proposed classification that has been notified to WTO by the EC and its Member States on 23 March 2001 (WTO document S/CSS/W/61). 
[35] The term "handling" should be taken to include clearance, sorting, transport and delivery. 
[36] "Postal item" refers to items handled by any type of commercial operator, whether public or private. 
[37] "Items of correspondence": a communication in written form on any kind of physical medium to be conveyed and delivered at the address indicated by the sender on the item itself or on its wrapping. Books, catalogues, newspapers and periodicals are not regarded as items of correspondence. 
[38] E.g. letter, postcards. 
[39] Books, catalogues are included hereunder. 
[40] Journals, newspapers, periodicals. 
[41] Express delivery services may include, in addition to greater speed and reliability, value added elements such as collection from point of origin, personal delivery to addressee, tracing and tracking, possibility of changing the destination and addressee in transit, confirmation of receipt. 
[42] Provision of means, including the supply of ad hoc premises as well as transportation by a third party, allowing self-delivery by mutual exchange of postal items between users subscribing to this service. Postal item refers to items handled by any type of commercial operator, whether public or private. 
[43] Broadcasting is defined as the uninterrupted chain of transmission required for the distribution of tv and radio programme signals to the general public, butdoes not cover contribution links between operators. 
[44] The service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
[45] A commitment on this mode of supply is not feasible. 
[46] Excluding arms in all Member States. Excluding explosives, chemical products and precious metals in all Member States except AT, FI, SE. Excluding pyrotechnical goods, ignitable articles, blasting devices, ammunition, military equipment, tobacco and tobacco products, toxic substances, medical and surgical devices, certain medical substances and objects for medical use in AT. Excluding distribution of pyrotechnical goods, ignitable articles and blasting devices, firearms, ammunition and military equipment, toxic substances and certain medical substances in Slovenia. 
[47] Excluding tobacco in ES, IT. 
[48] Excluding tobacco in ES, IT, FR. 
[49] The coverage for EE, LT and LV includes CPC 633, 6111, 61221, 63234. Excluding CPC 613 in LT. Excluding alcoholic beverages in FI, SE. Excluding CPC 61112, 6121, 613, 63107, 63108, 63211 in PL. Excluding pharmaceutical products (part of CPC 63211) in all Member States, which is committed in professional services under "pharmacists". Distribution services away from a fixed location (direct selling) are considered included as retail services. CPC 633 (repair services of personal and household goods) is committed under business services. This sector covers exclusively the distribution of merchandises. These are physical and transportable. 
[50] Where establishment is subject to an economic needs test, the main criteria are: the number of and impact on existing stores, population density, geographic spread, impact on traffic conditions and creation of new employment. 
[51] Excluding tobacco in ES, FR and IT. Excluding alcoholic beverages in IE. 
[52] Sale on a permanent basis from a fixed point of sale or manufacturing facilities are not affected by these rules. 
[53] The classification of the environmental services is listed according to the classification proposal included in Job 7612 (Communication of the EC and its Member States). 
[54] A commitment on this mode of supply is not feasible. 
[55] Where establishment is subject to an economic needs test in a Member State, the main criteria are: the number of beds and/or heavy medical equipment on the basis of needs, population density and age scale, geographic spread, protection of areas of particular historic and artistic interest, impact on traffic conditions and creation of new employment. 
[56] Law on Enterprises; supplement 1995 
[57] "The Community shall continue to grant to ships operated by service suppliers of the other Party treatment no less favourable than that accorded to its own ships with regard to, inter alia, access to ports, use of infrastructure and auxiliary maritime services of the ports, as well as related fees and charges, customs facilities and the assignment of berths and facilities for loading and unloading. In ports services also include:" 1. Pilotage; 2. Towing and tug assistance; 3. Provisioning, fuelling and watering; 4. Garbage collecting and ballast waste disposal; 5. Port Captain's services; 6. Navigation aids; 7. Shore-based operational services essential to ship operations, including communications, water and electrical supplies; 8. Emergency repair facilities; 9. Anchorage, berth and berthing services. 
[58] A commitment on this mode of supply is not feasible. 
[59] Public utility concession or licensing procedures may apply in case of occupation of the public domain. 
[60] "Customs clearance services" (alternatively customs house brokers' services) means activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another party customs formalities concerning import, export or through transport of cargoes, whether this service is the main activity of the service provider or a usual complement of its main activity. 
[61] "Container station and depot services" means activities consisting in storing containers, whether in port areas or inland, with a view to their stuffing/stripping, repairing and making them available for shipments. 
[62] "Maritime agency services" means activities consisting in representing, within a given geographic area, as an agent the business interests of one or more shipping lines or shipping companies, for the following purposes: 
- marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies, acquisition and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information; 
- acting on behalf of the companies organising the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required. 
[63] "Freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting of organising and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the acquisition of transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information. 
[64] The Community shall continue to grant to ships operated by service suppliers of the other Party treatment no less favourable than that accorded to its own ships with regard to, inter alia, access to ports, use of infrastructure and auxiliary maritime services of the ports, as well as related fees and charges, customs facilities and the assignment of berths and facilities for loading and unloading. In ports services also include (same as footnote for international maritime transport above) 1. Pilotage; 2. Towing and tug assistance; 3. Provisioning, fuelling and watering; 4. Garbage collecting and ballast waste disposal; 5. Port Captain's services; 6. Navigation aids; 7. Shore-based operational services essential to ship operations, including communications, water and electrical supplies; 8. Emergency repair facilities; 9. Anchorage, berth and berthing services. 
[65] Indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities by the CPC concordance. 
[66] Needs test based on the number of service suppliers in the local geographic area. 
[67] Where the supply of a service is subject to an economic needs test, this is essentially based on existing public transport on the route concerned. 
[68] Indicates that the service specified constitutes only a part of the total range of activities covered by the CPC concordance. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX VI 
(ANNEX VIII of the Agreement referred to in Article 120 of the Agreement) 
SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS ON FINANCIAL SERVICES 
PART A 
Community's schedule 
Introductory Note 
1. The specific commitments in this schedule apply only to the territories in which the Treaties establishing the Community are applied and under the conditions laid down in these Treaties. These commitments apply only to the relations between the Communities and their Member States on the one hand, and non-Community countries on the other. They do not affect the rights and obligations of Member States arising from Community law. 
2. The following abbreviations are used to indicate the Member States: 
AT Austria 
BE Belgium 
CY Cyprus 
CZ Czech Republic 
DE Germany 
DK Denmark 
ES Spain 
EE Estonia 
FR France 
FI Finland 
EL Greece 
HU Hungary 
IT Italy 
IE Ireland 
LU Luxembourg 
LT Lithuania 
LV Latvia 
MT Malta 
NL The Netherlands 
PT Portugal 
PL Poland 
SE Sweden 
SI Slovenia 
SK Slovak Republic 
UK United Kingdom 
"Subsidiary" of a legal person means a legal person which is effectively controlled by another legal person. 
"Branch" of a legal person means a place of business not having legal personality which has the appearance of permanency, such as the extension of a parent body, has a management and is materially equipped to negotiate business with third parties so that the latter, although knowing that there will if necessary be a legal link with the parent body, the head office of which is abroad, do not have to deal directly with such parent body but may transact business at the place of business constituting the extension. 
I.HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS | 
All sectors included in this schedule | | | | 
| 3.In all Member States [1] services considered as public utilities at a national or local level may be subject to public monopolies or to exclusive rights granted to private operators [2]. | 3.a)Treatment accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community is not extended to branches or agencies established in a Member State by a Chilean company. However, this does not prevent a Member State from extending this treatment to branches or agencies established in another Member State by a Chilean company or firm, as regards their operation in the first Member State's territory, unless such extension is explicitly prohibited by Community law.b)Less favourable reatment may be accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State which have only their registered office or central administration in the territory of the Community, unless it can be shown that they possess an effective and continuous link with the economy of one of the Member States. | | 
| HU: Commercial presence should take the form of limited liability company, joint-stock company, or representative office. Initial entry as branch is not permitted. | Formation of Legal Entity 3.SE: A limited liability company (joint stock company) may be established by one or several founders. A founding party shall either reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) or be an EEA legal entity. A partnership can only be a founding party if each partner resides within the EEA [3]. Corresponding conditions prevail for establishment of all other types of legal entities. | | 
| Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: A foreign company (which has not established a legal entity in Sweden) shall conduct its commercial operations through a branch, established in Sweden with independent management and separate accounts.SE: Building projects with a duration of less than a year are exempted from the requirements of establishing a branch or appointing a resident representative. | Law on foreign companies' branches 3.SE: The managing director and at least 50 % of the members of the board shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area).SE: The managing director of a branch shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) [3].SE: Foreign or Swedish citizens not residing in Sweden, who wishes to conduct commercial operations in Sweden, shall appoint and register with the local authority a resident representative responsible for such activities.SI: The establishment of branches by foreign companies is conditioned with the registration of the parent company in a court register in the country of origin for at least one year. | | 
| Legal Entities: 3.FI: Acquisition of shares by foreign owners giving more than one third of the voting rights of a major Finnish company or a major business undertaking (with more than 1000 employees or with a turnover exceeding Finnish markka 1000 million or with a balance sheet total exceeding EUR 167 million) is subject to confirmation by the Finnish authorities; the confirmation may be denied only if an important national interest would be jeopardised.FI: At least half of the founders of a limited company need to be resident either in Finland or in one of the other EEA (European Economic Area) countries. Company exemptions may, however, be granted.PL: The establishment by foreign service suppliers may only take the form of limited partnership, limited liability company or joint stock company. | FI: A foreigner living outside the European Economic Area and carrying on a trade as a private entrepreneur or as a partner in a Finnish limited or general partnership needs a trade permit. If a foreign organisation or foundation which is resident outside the European Economic Area intends to carry on a business or trade by establishing a branch in Finland, a trade permit is required. FI: If at least half of the members of the Board or the Managing Director are resident outside the European Economic Area, a permission is required. Company exemptions may, however, be granted. SK: A foreign natural person whose name is to be registered in the Commercial Register as a person authorised to act on behalf of the entrepreneur is required to submit residence permit for the Slovak Republic. | | 
| Real estate purchases: DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities. Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities. EL: According to Law No 1892/89 permission from the Minister of Defence is needed for a citizen to acquire land in areas near borders. According to administrative practices permission is easily granted for direct investment. CY: Unbound. HU: Unbound for the acquisition of state owned property. LT: Unbound for the acquisition of land by juridical and natural persons. MT: Unbound for the acquisition of real property. LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons. Land lease not exceeding 99 years permitted. PL: Unbound in relation to acquisition of State-owned property, i.e. the regulations governing the privatisation process (for mode 3). SI: Juridical persons, established in the Republic of Slovenia with foreign capital participation, may acquire real estate on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Branches [4] established in the Republic of Slovenia by foreign persons may only acquire real estate, except land, necessary for the conduct of the economic activities for which they are established. Ownership of real estate in the border areas of 10 km by companies in which majority of capital or voting rights belongs directly or indirectly to juridical persons or nationals of another Member is subject to special permission. | Real estate purchases: AT: The acquisition, purchase as well as rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and legal persons requires an authorisation by the competent regional authorities (Länder) which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are affected or not. IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals. Where such land is for industrial use (other than agricultural industry), this requirement is waived subject to a certificate to this effect from the Minister for Enterprise and Employment. This law does not apply to land within the boundaries of cities and towns. CZ: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign natural and legal entities. Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of the Czech legal entities or participation in joint ventures. Acquisition of the land by foreign entities is subject to authorisation. HU: Unbound for the acquisition of real estate by foreign natural persons. LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons. Land lease not exceeding 99 years permitted. PL: Acquisition of real estate, direct and indirect, by foreigners and foreign legal persons requires permission | | 
| SK: None except for land (for modes 3 and 4) | SK: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign physical and legal entities. Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of Slovak legal entities or participation in joint ventures. Acquisition of the land by foreign entities is subject to authorisation (for modes 3 and 4). | | 
| | IT: Unbound for purchase of real estate. FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right for natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, and for legal persons, to acquire and hold real property on the Åland Islands without permission by the competent authorities of the islands. FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any legal person, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands. | | 
| Investments: FR: Foreign purchases exceeding 33,33 % of the shares of capital or voting rights in existing French enterprise, or 20 % in publicly quoted French companies, are subject to the following regulation:after a period of one month following prior notification, authorisation is tacitly granted unless the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in exceptional circumstances, exercised its right to postpone the investment.FR: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the government of France on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public.ES: Investment in Spain by foreign government and foreign public entities (which tends to imply, besides economic, also non-economic interests to entity's part), directly or through companies or other entities controlled directly or indirectly by foreign governments, need prior authorisation by the government.PT: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the Government of Portugal on a case-by-case basis, of the equity offered to the public. | Investments: CY: Entities with foreign participation must have paid up capital commensurate with their finance requirements and non-residents must finance their contribution through the importation of foreign exchange. In case the non-resident participation exceeds 24 per cent, any additional financing for working capital requirements or otherwise should be raised from local and foreign sources in proportion to the participation of residents and non-residents in the entity's equity. In the case of branches of foreign companies, all capital for the initial investment must be provided from foreign sources. Borrowing from local sources is only permitted after the initial implementation of the project, for financing working capital requirements. HU: Unbound for the acquisition of state-owned properties. LT: Investments in organizing the lotteries are forbidden under the Law on Foreign Capital Investment. | | 
| IT: Exclusive rights may be granted or maintained to newly-privatised companies. Voting rights in newly privatised companies may be restricted in some cases. For a period of five years, the acquisition of large equity stakes of companies operating in the fields of defence, transport services, telecommunications and energy may be subject to the approval of the Ministry of Treasury. FR: For establishing in certain [5] commercial, industrial or artisanal activities, a specific authorisation is needed if the managing director is not holder of a permanent residence permit. | MT: Companies with the participation of non-resident legal or natural persons are subject to the same capital requirement applicable to companies that are fully owned by residents as follows: private companies — Lm500 (with a minimum of 20 % as paid up capital); public companies — Lm20000 (with a minimum of 25 % paid up capital). The non-resident percentage of share of the equity is to be paid for with funds emanating from abroad. | | 
| CY: The permission of the Central Bank is required for the participation of any non-resident in a corporate body or partnership in Cyprus. Foreign participation in all sectors/subsectors included in the Schedule of Commitments is normally limited up to 49 %. The decision of the authorities to grant permission for foreign participation is based on an economic needs test, for which the following criteria are used in general:(a)Provision of services which are new to Cyprus(b)Promotion of the export orientation of the economy with development of existing and new markets(c)Transfer of modern technology, know-how and new management techniques(d)Improvement either of the productive structure of the economy or of the quality of existing products and services(e)Complementary impact on existing units or activities(f)Viability of proposed project(g)Creation of new job opportunities for scientists, qualitative improvement and training of local staff.In exceptional cases, in which a proposed investment satisfies most of the economic needs test criteria to a large extent, permission for foreign participation exceeding 49 % may be granted. | Subsidies Eligibility for subsidies from the Community or Member States may be limited to legal persons established within the territory of a Member State or a particular geographical sub-division thereof. Unbound for subsidies for research and development. Unbound for branches established in a Member State by a non-Community company. The supply of a service, or its subsidisation, within the public sector is not in breach of this commitment. Commitments taken in this schedule do not require the Community or Member States to offer a subsidy to a service supplied from outside its territory. To the extent that any subsidies are made available to natural persons, their availability may be limited to nationals of a Member State. | | 
| In the case of public companies, foreign equity participation is normally allowed to the extent of up to 30 per cent. In Mutual Funds the extent of allowable foreign ownership is 40 %. Corporate bodies have to be registered under the Companies Law. Same Law requires that a foreign company wishing to establish a place of business or an office in Cyprus must register it as a foreign branch. For the registration the prior approval of the Central Bank is required under the Exchange Control Law. Such approval is subject to the foreign investment policy applicable at the time with regard to the Corporate Body's proposed activities in Cyprus and the general investment criteria stipulated above. HU: Unbound for the acquisition of state-owned properties. MT: The Companies Act (Cap.386) regulating the supply of services by non-residents through the registration of a local company and the External Transactions Act (Cap. 233) which regulates the issue, acquisition, sale and redemption of securities not listed on the Malta Stock Exchange shall continue to apply. | | | 
| PL: Authorisation of the establishment of a company with foreign equity is required in the case of:establishment of company, purchase or acquiring of shares or stocks in an existing company; extending of the activity of the company when the scope of activity embraces at least one of the following areas: management of seaports and airports,dealing in real estate or acting as intermediary in real estate transactions,supply to defence industry that is not covered by other licensing requirements,wholesale trade in imported consumer goods,provision of legal advisory services,establishment of a joint-venture company with a foreign equity in which the Polish party is a state legal person and is contributing non-pecuniary assets as initial capital,arranging a contract, that includes right to use of state property for more than six months or decides on acquiring of such property. SI: For financial services, authorisation is issued by the authorities indicated in sector specific commitments and according to conditions indicated in sector specific commitments. There are no limitations on establishment of a new business establishment (greenfield investments). | | | 
| Exchange regime [6] [7] [8]: 1 and 2. SK: In relation to current payments, limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes. In relation to capital payments, foreign exchange authorisation required for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investments abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchase of foreign securities. | Exchange regime [9] 4.CY: Under the Exchange Control Law, non-residents are not normally permitted to borrow from local sources | | 
| 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the entry into and temporary stay [10] within a Member State, without requiring compliance with an economic needs test [11], of the following categories of natural persons providing services: | 4.Unbound except for measures concerning the categories of natural persons referred to in the Market Access column. | | 
| (i)the temporary presence, as intra-corporate transferee [12], of natural persons in the following categories, provided that the service supplier is a legal person and that the persons concerned have been employed by it or have been partners in it (other than as majority shareholders), for at least the year immediately preceding such movement: | Community directives on mutual recognition of diplomas do not apply to nationals of third countries. Recognition of the diplomas which are required in order to practise regulated professional services by non-Community nationals remains within the competence of each Member State, unless Community law provides otherwise. The right to practise a regulated professional service in one Member State does not grant the right to practise in another Member State. | | 
| (a)Persons working in a senior position within a legal person, who primarily direct the management of the establishment, receiving general supervision or direction principally from the board of directors or stockholders of the business or their equivalent, including:directing the establishment or a department or sub-division of the establishment,supervising and controlling the work of other supervisory, professional or managerial employees,having the authority personally to hire and fire or recommend hiring, firing or other personnel actions. | Residency requirements AT: Managing directors of branches and legal persons have to be resident in Austria; natural persons responsible within a legal person or a branch for the observance of the Austrian Trade Act must be resident in Austria. MT: Immigration regulations under the Immigration Act (Cap 217) will regulate the issue of residency permits/documents. | | 
| (b)Persons working within a legal person who possess uncommon knowledge essential to the establishment's service, research equipment, techniques or management. In assessing such knowledge, account will be taken not only of knowledge specific to the establishment, but also of whether the person has a high level of qualification referring to a type of work or trade requiring specific technical knowledge, including membership of an accredited profession. | | | 
| (ii)the temporary presence of natural persons in the following categories: | | | 
| (a)Persons not residing in the territory of a Member State to which the EC treaties apply, who are representatives of a service supplier and are seeking temporary entry for the purpose of negotiating for the sale of services or entering into agreements to sell services for that service provider, where those representatives will not be engaged in making direct sales to the general public or in supplying services themselves (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned). | | | 
| (b)Persons working in a senior position, as defined in i) a) above, within a legal person, who are responsible for setting up in a Member State a commercial presence of a service provider of Chile when:the representatives are not engaged in making direct sale or supplying services (in addition, for EE, HU, LV, SI: or on their own behalf receive remuneration from a source located within the Member State concerned), andthe service provider has its principal place of business in the territory of Chile and has no other representative, office, branch or subsidiary in that Member State. | | | 
| FR: The managing director of an industrial, commercial or artisanal activity [13], if not holder of a residence permit, needs a specific authorisation. | | | 
| IT: Access to industrial, commercial and artisanal activities is subject to a residence permit and specific authorisation to pursue the activity. | | | 
II.1.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (first part) [14] | 
1.Part of the EC (AT, BE, CZ, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, HU, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SK, SE, UK) undertakes commitments on Financial Services in accordance with the provisions of the "Understanding on Commitments in Financial Services" attached (hereinafter referred to as the Understanding). These commitments are in the following section. Commitments on Financial Services of the other part of the EC (CY, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI) are not based on the Understanding and are in a second section.2.These commitments are subject to the limitations on market access and national treatment in the "all sectors" section of this schedule and to those relating to the subsectors listed below.3.The market access commitments in respect of modes 1 and 2 apply only to the transactions indicated in paragraphs B.3 and B.4 of the market access section of the Understanding respectively, except for Hungary, for which they apply only to the transactions indicated in paragraphs B.3 (a) and (b) and B.4 (a) and (b) respectively.4.Notwithstanding note 1 above, the market access and national treatment commitments in respect of mode (4) on financial services are those in the "all sectors" section of this schedule, except for the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Slovak Republic, and Sweden, in which case commitments are made in accordance with the Understanding.5.The admission to the market of new financial services or products may be subject to the existence of, and consistency with, a regulatory framework aimed at achieving the objectives indicated in Article 121.6.As a general rule and in a non-discriminatory manner, financial institutions incorporated in a Member State of the Community must adopt a specific legal form.7.HU: Insurance, banking, securities and collective investment management services should be performed by legally separate and independently capitalised suppliers of financial services, although banks may be authorised to provide services in the securities field as well.8.HU: It is intended to bind direct branching once it is bound in the GATS, and under the conditions set therein.9.HU: The board of a financial institution should include at least two members, who are Hungarian citizens, residents in the meaning of the relevant foreign exchange regulations and have permanent residency in Hungary for at least one year. | 
II.1.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (first part) | 
A.Insurance and insurance-related services1.CZ: Compulsory motor third party liability insurance is provided by an exclusive supplier [15]. Compulsory health insurance is provided by licensed Czech-owned suppliers only.2.SK: The following insurance services are provided by exclusive suppliers: Compulsory motor third party liability insurance, compulsory air transport insurance, the liability insurance of employer against injury or occupational disease has to be effected through the Slovak insurance company. The basic health insurance is confined to the Slovak health insurance companies having a licence for provision of health insurance granted by the Ministry of Healthcare of the Slovak Republic according to the Act 273/1994 Coll. of Law. Fund pension insurance schemes and sickness insurance are confined to the Social Insurance Company. | 
| 1.AT: Promotional activity and intermediation on behalf of a subsidiary not established in the Community or of a branch not established in Austria (except for reinsurance and retrocession) are prohibited.AT: Compulsory air insurance can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Austria. CZ: None other than: Foreign financial services suppliers may establish an insurance company with the seat in the Czech Republic in the form of a joint stock company or may exercise insurance activity through their branches with registered office in the Czech Republic under the conditions established in the Insurance Industry Act.Commercial presence and authorisation is required for the provider of insurance services:to provide such services including reinsurance, andto conclude intermediation contract with an intermediary aimed at the conclusion of insurance contract between the provider of insurance services and third party. | 1.AT: Higher premium tax is due for insurance contracts (except for contracts on reinsurance and retrocession) which are written by a subsidiary not established in the Community or by a branch not established in Austria. Exception from the higher tax can be granted. | Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) undertakes additional commitments as contained in the "Additional commitments by part of the EC" attached. | 
| Authorisation is required for the intermediary in case of its intermediation activity to be exercised for a branch with registered office in the Czech Republic. | | | 
| DK: Compulsory air transport insurance can be underwritten only by firms established in the Community. DK: No persons or companies (including insurance companies) may for business purposes in Denmark assist in effecting direct insurance for persons resident in Denmark, for Danish ships or for property in Denmark, other than insurance companies licensed by Danish law or by Danish competent authorities. | | | 
| DE: Compulsory air insurance policies can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Germany. | | | 
| DE: If a foreign insurance company has established a branch in Germany, it may conclude insurance contracts in Germany relating to international transport only through the branch established in Germany. IT: Unbound for the actuarial profession. FI: Only insurers having their head office in the European Economic Area or having their branch in Finland may offer insurance services as referred to in subparagraph 3(a) of the Understanding. | | | 
| FI: The supply of insurance broker services is subject to a permanent place of business in the European Economic Area. FR: Insurance of risks relating to ground transport may be carried out only by insurance firms established in the Community. | | | 
| IT: Transport insurance of goods, insurance of vehicles as such and liability insurance regarding risks located in Italy may be underwritten only by insurance companies established in the Community. This reservation does not apply for international transport involving imports into Italy. | | | 
| SK: Commercial presence is required for supply of: the life insurance of persons with permanent residence in the Slovak Republic,the insurance of property on the territory of the Slovak Republic,the insurance of liability for loss or damage caused by the activity of natural persons and juridical persons on the territory of the Slovak Republic,air and maritime insurance, covering goods, aircraft, hull and liability. SE: The supply of direct insurance is allowed only through an insurance service supplier authorised in Sweden, provided that the foreign service supplier and the Swedish insurance company belong to the same group of companies or have an agreement of cooperation between them. | | | 
| 2.AT: Promotional activity and intermediation on behalf of a subsidiary not established in the Community or of a branch not established in Austria (except for reinsurance and retrocession) are prohibited.AT: Compulsory air insurance can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Austria. | 2.AT: Higher premium tax is due for insurance contracts (except for contracts on reinsurance and retrocession) which are written by a subsidiary not established in the Community or by a branch not established in Austria. Exception from the higher tax can be granted. | | 
| CZ: None other than: Insurance services as defined below may not be purchased abroad. The life insurance of persons with permanent residence in the Czech Republicthe insurance of property on the territory of the Czech Republicthe insurance of liability for loss or damage caused by the activity of natural and legal persons on the territory of the Czech Republic. | | | 
| DK: Compulsory air transport insurance can be underwritten only by firms established in the Community. DK: No persons or companies (including insurance companies) may, for business purposes in Denmark, assist in effecting direct insurance for persons resident in Denmark, for Danish ships or for property in Denmark, other than insurance companies licensed by Danish law or by Danish competent authorities. DE: Compulsory air insurance policies can be underwritten only by a subsidiary established in the Community or by a branch established in Germany. | | | 
| DE: If a foreign insurance company has established a branch in Germany, it may conclude insurance contracts in Germany relating to international transport only through the branch established in Germany. FR: Insurance of risks relating to ground transport may be carried out only by insurance firms established in the Community. IT: Transport insurance of goods, insurance of vehicles as such and liability insurance regarding risks located in Italy may be underwritten only by insurance companies established in the Community. This reservation does not apply for international transport involving imports into Italy. SK: Insurance services covered by mode 1, except insurance of air and maritime transport, covering goods, aircraft, hull and liability above may not be purchased abroad. | | | 
| 3.AT: The licence for branch offices of foreign insurers has to be denied if the insurer, in the home country, does not have a legal form corresponding or comparable to a joint stock company or a mutual insurance association.CZ: None other than: Foreign financial services suppliers may establish an insurance company with the seat in the Czech Republic in the form of a joint stock company or may exercise insurance activity through their branches with registered office in the Czech Republic under the conditions established in the Insurance Industry Act.Commercial presence and authorisation is required for the provider of insurance services:to provide such services including reinsurance, andto conclude intermediation contract with an intermediary aimed at the conclusion of insurance contract between the provider of insurance services and third party. | 3.SK: The majority of the management board of an insurance company has to be domiciled in the Slovak Republic.SE: Non-life insurance undertakings not incorporated in Sweden conducting business in Sweden are - instead of being taxed according to the net result - subject to taxation based on the premium income from direct insurance operations. SE: A founder of an insurance company shall be a natural person resident in the European Economic Area or a legal entity incorporated in the European Economic Area. | | 
| Authorisation is required for the intermediary in case of its intermediation activity to be exercised for a branch with registered office in the Czech Republic. | | | 
| FI: The managing director, at least one auditor and at least one half of the promoters and members of the board of directors and the supervisory board of an insurance company shall have their place of residence in the European Economic Area, unless the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has granted an exemption. FI: Foreign insurers cannot get a licence in Finland as a branch to carry on statutory social insurances (statutory pension insurance, statutory accident insurance). | | | 
| FR: The establishment of branches is subject to a special authorisation for the representative of the branch. EL: The right of establishment does not cover the creation of representative offices or other permanent presence of insurance companies, except where such offices are established as agencies, branches or head offices. IT: Access to actuarial profession through natural persons only. Professional associations (no incorporation) among natural persons permitted. IT: The authorisation of the establishment of branches is ultimately subject to the evaluation of supervisory authorities. IE: The right of establishment does not cover the creation of representative offices. | | | 
| SK: Licence is required for provision of insurance services. Foreign national may establish an insurance company with the seat in the Slovak Republic in the form of a joint stock company or may conduct insurance business through their subsidiaries with registered office in the Slovak Republic under the general conditions established in the Law on Insurance. Insurance business means insurance activity including brokerage and reinsurance activity. | | | 
| Intermediation activity aimed at the conclusion of an insurance contract between third party and the insurance company may be provided by natural or juridical persons who are domiciled in the Slovak Republic for the benefit of the insurance company having the license of the Insurance Supervisory Authority. | | | 
| Intermediation contract aimed at conclusion of an insurance contract by third party with the insurance company may be concluded by domestic or foreign insurance company only after a licence had been granted by the Insurance Supervisory Authority | | | 
| The financial resources of specific insurance funds of licensed insurance operators derived from insuring or reinsuring policy holders with residence or registered office in the Slovak Republic must be deposited in a resident bank in the Slovak Republic and may not be transferred abroad. | | | 
| SE: Insurance broking undertakings not incorporated in Sweden may establish a commercial presence only through a branch. | | | 
II.1.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (first part) | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:EL: A majority of the members of the board of directors of a company established in Greece shall be nationals of one of the Member States of the Community. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:AT: The management of a branch office must consist of two natural persons resident in Austria. DK: The general agent of an insurance branch will need to have resided in Denmark for the last two years unless being a national of one of the Member States of the Community. The Minister of Business and Industry may grant exemption. DK: Residency requirement for managers and the members of the board of directors of a company. However, the Minister of Business and Industry may grant exemption from this requirement. Exemption is granted on a non-discriminatory basis. IT: Residence requirement for actuarial profession. | | 
B.Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance)1.CZ: Non-central bank currency issue services, trading of bullion, money broking, settlement and clearing services for derivative products, and advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services relating to these activities are not committed.2.SK: Trading of bullion, money broking, and intermediation are not committed. | 
| 1. [16] BE: Establishment in Belgium is required for the provision of investment advisory services.IT: Unbound for "promotori di servizi finanziari" (financial salesmen). CZ: Unbound for trading of transferable securities and of other negotiable instruments and financial assets, participation in issues of all kinds of securities, asset management, and settlement and clearing services for financial assets. None other than: Only Czech established banks and branches of foreign banks having a corresponding licence may: provide deposit services;trade in foreign exchange assets;effect non-cash cross-border payments. | 1.None. | Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) undertakes additional commitments as contained in the "Additional commitments by part of the EC" attached. | 
| Foreign exchange permit issued by the Czech National Bank or Ministry of Finance is required in case of Czech non-bank residents for: (a)opening and funding of an account abroad by Czech residents(b)capital payments abroad (except FDI) | | | 
| (c)granting financial credits and guarantees(d)operations in financial derivates | | | 
| (e)purchase of foreign securities except for the cases as described by the Foreign Exchange Act | | | 
| (f)issue of foreign securities for public and non-public trade in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the domestic market. | | | 
| IE: The provision of investment services or investment advice requires either (i) authorisation in Ireland, which normally requires that the entity be incorporated or be a partnership or a sole trader, in each case with a head/registered office in Ireland (authorisation may not be required in certain cases, e.g. where a third country service provider has no commercial presence in Ireland and the service is not provided to private individuals), or (ii) authorisation in another Member State in accordance with the EC Investment Services Directive. | | | 
| SK: Unbound for trading of transferable securities and of other negotiable instruments and financial assets, participation in issues of all kinds of securities, asset management, and settlement and clearing services for financial assets. | | | 
| None other than: (i)Deposit services are confined to the domestic banks and branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic. | | | 
| (ii)Only authorised domestic banks, branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic and persons possessing a foreign exchange license may trade in foreign exchange assets. Only stock exchange members can trade on the Bratislava Stock Exchange. Residents can trade on the RM-System Slovakia without any limitation and non-residents only through security dealers. | | | 
| (iii)Non-cash cross-border payments may be effected only by authorised domestic banks and branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic. | | | 
| (iv)Foreign exchange licence issued by the National Bank of Slovakia is required for:(a)opening an account abroad by a Slovak non-bank resident, except for the natural persons during their stay abroad;(b)capital payments abroad;(c)obtaining financial credit from a foreign exchange non-resident; except credits from abroad accepted by residents with a repayment period of more than three years and loans granted between natural persons for non-business activities. | | | 
| (v)Export and import of the Slovak currency and foreign exchange in cash exceeding value of SKK 150 000 and bullion, is subject to reporting requirement. | | | 
| (vi)Foreign exchange permission or licence granted by foreign exchange authorities is required for a deposit of financial assets by resident abroad. | | | 
| (vii)Only foreign exchange entities established in the Slovak Republic can grant and obtain guarantees and liabilities according to determined limit and provisions of the National Bank of Slovakia. | | | 
| 2. [17] CZ: Unbound for asset management.None other than: Only Czech established banks and branches of foreign banks having a corresponding licence may: | 2.None. | | 
| provide deposit servicestrade in foreign exchange assets;effect non-cash cross-border payments. | | | 
| Foreign exchange permit issued by the Czech National Bank or Ministry of Finance is required in case of Czech non-bank residents for: | | | 
| (a)opening and funding of an account abroad by Czech residents(b)capital payments abroad (except FDI)(c)granting financial credits and guarantees | | | 
| (d)operations in financial derivates(e)purchase of foreign securities except for the cases as described by the Foreign Exchange Act | | | 
| (f)issue of foreign securities for public and non-public trade in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the domestic market. | | | 
| FI: Payments from governmental entities (expenses) shall be transmitted through the Sampo Bank Ltd. Exemption from this requirement may be granted on special reason by the Ministry of Finance. SK: Unbound for asset management. | | | 
| None other than: (i)Deposit services are confined to the domestic banks and branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic. | | | 
| (ii)Only authorised domestic banks, branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic and persons possessing a foreign exchange license may trade in foreign exchange assets. Only stock exchange members can trade on the Bratislava Stock Exchange. Residents can trade on the RM-System Slovakia without any limitation and non-residents only through security dealers. | | | 
| (iii)Non-cash cross-border payments may be effected only by authorised domestic banks and branches of foreign banks in the Slovak Republic. | | | 
| (iv)Foreign exchange licence issued by the National Bank of Slovakia is required for:(a)opening an account abroad by a Slovak non-bank resident, except for the natural persons during their stay abroad;(b)capital payments abroad;(c)obtaining financial credit from a foreign exchange non-resident; except credits from abroad accepted by residents with a repayment period of more than 3 years and loans granted between natural persons for non-business activities. | | | 
| (v)Export and import of the Slovak currency and foreign exchange in cash exceeding value of SKK 150000 and bullion, is subject to reporting requirement. | | | 
| (vi)Foreign exchange permission or licence granted by foreign exchange authorities is required for a deposit of financial assets by resident abroad | | | 
| (vii)Only foreign exchange entities established in the Slovak Republic can grant and obtain guarantees and liabilities according to determined limit and provisions of the National Bank of Slovakia. | | | 
| 3.All Member States:The establishment of a specialised management company is required to perform the activities of management of unit trusts and investment companies.Only firms having their registered office in the Community can act as depositories of the assets of investment funds. | 3.SE: A founder of a banking company shall be a natural person resident in the European Economic Area or a foreign bank. A founder of a savings bank shall be a natural person resident in the European Economic Area. | | 
| CZ: None other than:Banking services may be provided only by Czech established banks or branches of foreign banks having a licence granted by the Czech National Bank in agreement with the Ministry of Finance.Mortgage loan services may be provided only by Czech established banks.Banks may be established as joint stock companies only. The purchase of shares of existing banks is subject to prior approval of the Czech National Bank.Securities may be traded publicly only if relevant authorisation has been granted and prospectus covering the security has been approved. | | | 
| The establishment and activities of securities dealers, stockbrokers, of the Stock Exchange or organisers of an over-the-counter market, investment companies and investment funds are subject to authorisation granting of which is related to qualifications, personal integrity, management and material requirements. | | | 
| Settlement and clearing services for all kinds of payments are monitored and reviewed by the Czech National Bank to ensure their smooth and economical operation. | | | 
| DK: Financial institutions may engage in securities trading on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange only through subsidiaries incorporated in Denmark. FI: At least one half of the founders, the members of the board of directors, the supervisory board and the delegates, the managing director, the holder of the procuration and the person entitled to sign in the name of the credit institution shall have their place of residence in the European Economic Area, unless the Ministry of Finance grants an exemption. At least one auditor shall have his place of residence in the European Economic Area. | | | 
| FI: The broker (individual person) on derivative exchange shall have his place of residence in the European Economic Area. Exemption from this requirement may be granted under the conditions set by the Ministry of Finance. FI: Payments from governmental entities (expenses) shall be transmitted through the Sampo Bank Ltd. Exemption from this requirement may be granted on special reason by the Ministry of Finance. | | | 
| EL: For the establishment and operations of branches a minimum amount of foreign exchange must be imported, converted into euro and kept in Greece as long as a foreign bank continues to operate in Greece:Up to four branches this minimum is currently equal to half of the minimum amount of share capital required for a credit institution to be incorporated in GreeceFor the operation of additional branches the minimum amount of capital must be equal to the minimum share capital required for a credit institution to be incorporated in Greece. IT: In providing the activity of door-to-door selling, intermediaries must utilise authorised financial salesmen resident within the territory of a Member State of the European Communities. IT: Representative offices of foreign intermediaries cannot carry out activities aimed at providing investment services. | | | 
| IT: Clearing services including the phase of final settlement may be conducted only by entities duly authorised and supervised by the Bank of Italy in agreement with Consob. IT: The public offer of securities can only be made by entities duly authorised. IT: Centralised deposit, custody and administration services can be provided only by entities duly authorised and supervised by the Consob in agreement with the Bank of Italy. | | | 
| IT: In the case of collective investment schemes other than harmonised UCITS under the directive 85/611/EEC, the trustee/depositary is required to be incorporated in Italy or in another Member State of the European Community, being established through a branch in Italy. Only banks, insurance companies, securities investment companies having their legal head office in the European Community may carry out activity of pension fund resources management. Management companies (closed-end funds and real estate funds) are also required to be incorporated in Italy. IE: In the case of collective investment schemes constituted as unit trusts and variable capital companies (other than undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities, UCITS), the trustee/depositary and management company is required to be incorporated in Ireland or in another Member State of the Community. In the case of an investment limited partnership, at least one general partner must be incorporated in Ireland. | | | 
| IE: To become a member of a stock exchange in Ireland, an entity must either (i) be authorised in Ireland, which requires that it be incorporated or be a partnership, with a head/registered office in Ireland, or (ii) be authorised in another Member State in accordance with the EC Investment Services Directive. IE: The provision of investment services or investment advice requires either (i) authorisation in Ireland, which normally requires that the entity be incorporated or be a partnership or a sole trader, in each case with a head/registered office in Ireland (the supervisory authority may also authorise branches of third country entities), or (ii) authorisation in another Member State in accordance with the EC Investment Services Directive. PT: The establishment of non-EC banks is subject to an authorisation issued, on a case-by-case basis, by the Minister of Finance. The establishment has to contribute to increase the national banking system's efficiency or has to produce significant effects on the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy. | | | 
| PT: The services of venture capital may not be provided by branches of venture capital companies having their head office in a non-EC country. Pension fund management may be provided only by companies incorporated in Portugal and by insurance companies established in Portugal and authorised to take up the life insurance business. | | | 
| SK: Banking services may be provided only by domestic banks or branches of foreign banks authorised by the National Bank of Slovakia upon the agreement with the Ministry of Finance. The granting of authorisation is based on the consideration of criteria relating, in particular, to capital endowment (financial strength) professional qualifications, integrity and competence of the management of the projected bank activities. Banks are legal entities incorporated in the Slovak Republic, established as joint-stock companies or public (State-owned) financial institutions. | | | 
| The purchase of shares expressing interest in the equity capital of existing commercial bank from the determined limit is subject to prior approval of the National Bank of Slovakia. | | | 
| Investment services in the Slovak Republic can be provided by banks, investment companies, investment funds and security dealers which have legal form of joint-stock company with equity capital according to the law. Foreign investment company or investment fund must obtain an authorisation from Ministry of Finance for selling its securities or investment certificate units on the territory of the Slovak Republic according to the law. For issue of debt securities the permission of the Ministry of Finance is required either for the issue inland or abroad. | | | 
| Securities may be issued and traded only after a permission by the Ministry of Finance has been granted for public trading according to the Securities Act. The business of security dealer, stockbroker or organiser of an over-the counter market is subject to authorisation of the Ministry of Finance. Settlement and clearing services for all kinds of payments are regulated by National Bank of Slovakia. | | | 
| Settlement and clearing services relating to change of physical property of securities are recorded in Centre of Securities (Clearing and Settlement House for Securities). Centre of Securities may provide only transfers on the property accounts of security owners. Cash part clearing and settlement goes through Banking Clearing and Settlement House - (where the National Bank of Slovakia is major shareholder) for Bratislava Stock Exchange, joint-stock company or through Jumbo account for RM-System Slovakia. | | | 
| SE: Undertakings not incorporated in Sweden may establish a commercial presence only through a branch, and in case of banks, also through a representative office. | | | 
| 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:FR: Sociétés d'investissement à capital fixe: condition of nationality for the president of the Board of Directors, the Directors-General and no less than two thirds of the administrators, and also, when the securities firm has a Supervisory Board or Council, for the members of such board or its Director-General, and no less than two thirds of the members of the supervisory Council.EL: Credit institutions should name at least two persons who are responsible for the operations of the institution. Condition of residency applies to these persons. | 4.Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitations:IT: Condition of residence for "promotori di servizi finanziari" (financial salesmen). | | 
II.2.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (second part) | 
1.The commitments on Financial Services of the other part of the EC (CY, EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, and SI) are in the following section2.CY: Unregulated financial services and products and the admission to the market of new financial services or products, may be subject to the existence or the introduction of a regulatory framework aimed at achieving the objectives indicated in Article 125.3.CY: Due to exchange controls operative in Cyprus:residents are not permitted to purchase banking services which may involve transfer of funds abroad, while they are physically abroad,loans to non residents/foreigners or non resident controlled companies require approval from the Central Bank,aquisition of securities by non residents also requires permission from the Central Bank, dealings in foreign currency may be carried out only through banks which have been accorded ‘authorised dealer’ status from the Central Bank.4.MT: For mode 3 commitments, under exchange control legislation non-residents wishing to supply any services through the registration of a local company may do so with the prior permission of the Central Bank of Malta. Companies with the participation of non-resident legal or natural persons require a minimum share capital of Maltese Liri 10 000 of which 50 % has to be paid up. The non resident percentage share of the equity is to be paid for with funds emanating from abroad. Companies with non-resident participation must apply for a permit from the Ministry of Finance to acquire premises under the appropriate legislation.5.MT: For mode 4 commitments, the requirements of Maltese legislation and regulations regarding entry, stay, acquisition of real property, work and social security measures shall continue to apply, including regulations concerning period of stay, minimum wages as well as collective wage agreements. Entry, work and residence permits are granted at the discretion of the Government of Malta.6.SI: The admission to the market of new financial services or products may be subject to the existence of, and consistency with, a regulatory framework aimed at achieving the objectives indicated in Article 125. 7.SI: As a general rule and in a non discriminatory manner, financial institutions incorporated in the Republic of Slovenia must adopt a specific legal form.8.SI: Insurance and banking activities should be performed by legally separate suppliers of financial services.9.SI: Investment services can be provided only through banks and investment firms. | 
II.2.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (second part) | 
A.Insurance and insurance-related services1.EE: Compulsory social security services are not committed.2.LV: (i), (ii) (3): As a general rule and in non-discriminatory manner, insurance institutions incorporated in Latvia must adopt a specific legal form.3.LV: (iii) (3): Intermediary can be only natural person (no nationality requirement) and can provide service on behalf of insurance company having the authorisation from Insurance Supervisory Authority in Latvia.4.LT: All subsectors: Insurance companies are not allowed to provide both life and non-life insurance. Separate incorporation is required for those two types (a) and (b). | 
(i)Direct insurance (including co-insurance):(a)life(b)non-life(ii)Reinsurance and retrocession(iii)Insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency(iv)Services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, risk assessment and claim settlement services | 1.CY:Life insurance (including intermediation): No insurer can offer life insurance services in the Republic of Cyprus unless licensed as an insurer by the Superintendent of Insurance, in accordance with the insurance companies laws. Non-life insurance (including intermediation): No insurer can offer non-life insurance services (except marine, aviation and transit) in the Republic of Cyprus unless licensed as an insurer by the Superintendent of Insurance, in accordance with the insurance companies laws. Reinsurance and retrocession (including intermediation): Any foreign reinsurer approved by the Superintendent of Insurance (on prudential criteria) may offer reinsurance or retrocession services to insurance companies incorporated and licensed in Cyprus. Services auxiliary to insurance: None. EE: None. | 1.CY, EE, LV, LT: None.MT: Life insurance, non-life insurance and reinsurance and retrocession: None. Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: Unbound. PL: Unbound except for the reinsurance, the retrocession and insurance of goods in international trade. SI: Marine, aviation and transport insurance, insurance intermediation, and services auxiliary to insurance: None. Life insurance, non-life insurance (except marine, aviation and transport insurance), and reinsurance and retrocession: Unbound. | | 
| LV: Life insurance, non-life insurance and insurance intermediation: Unbound. Reinsurance and retrocession, and services auxiliary to insurance: None. | | | 
| LT: Life insurance, non-life insurance (except for maritime and aviation insurance), and insurance intermediation: Unbound. Maritime and aviation insurance, reinsurance and retrocession and services auxiliary to insurance: None. MT: Marine, aviation and transport insurance, reinsurance and retrocession, and insurance intermediation: None. Life insurance, non-life insurance (except for marine, aviation and transport insurance), reinsurance and retrocession (except for marine, aviation and transport reinsurance), and services auxiliary to insurance: Unbound. | | | 
| PL: Unbound except for the reinsurance, the retrocession and insurance of goods in international trade. | | | 
| SI: Marine, aviation and transport insurance: Insurance activities provided by mutual insurance institutions are limited to incorporated companies established in the Republic of Slovenia. Life insurance, non-life insurance (except marine, aviation and transport insurance), reinsurance and retrocession, insurance intermediation, and services auxiliary to insurance: Unbound. | | | 
| 2.CY, EE, LV, LT: None.MT: Life insurance, non-life insurance, and reinsurance and retrocession: None. Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: Unbound. PL: Unbound except for the reinsurance, the retrocession and insurance of goods in international trade. SI: Marine, aviation and transport insurance: Insurance activities provided by mutual insurance institutions are limited to incorporated companies established in the Republic of Slovenia. | 2.CY, EE, LV, LT: None.MT: Life insurance, non-life insurance, and reinsurance and retrocession: None. Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: Unbound. PL: Unbound except for the reinsurance, the retrocession and insurance of goods in international trade. SI: Marine, aviation and transport insurance, reinsurance and retrocession, insurance intermediation, and services auxiliary to insurance: None. | | 
| Life insurance and non-life insurance (except marine, aviation and transport insurance): Unbound. Reinsurance and retrocession: Reinsurance companies in the Republic of Slovenia have priority in the collection of insurance premiums. In case that these companies are not able to equalise all risks, these can be reinsured and retroceded abroad. (None upon the adoption of the new law on Insurance Companies). | Life insurance and non-life insurance (except marine, aviation and transport insurance): Unbound. | | 
| Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: None. | | | 
| 3.CY:Life and non-life insurance (including intermediation): No insurer can operate in or from within the Republic of Cyprus unless so authorised by the Superintendent of Insurance, in accordance with the Insurance Companies Laws. Foreign insurance companies can operate in the Republic of Cyprus through the establishment of a branch or an agency. The foreign insurer must have been authorised to operate in his country of origin before authorised to establish a branch or agency. Participation of non-residents in insurance companies, incorporated in the Republic of Cyprus, requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. | 3.CY, LV, LT, MT, PL: None.EE: Life and non-life insurance: None, except the management body of an insurance joint-stock company with foreign capital participation may include citizens of foreign countries in proportion to the foreign participation, but not more than half of the members of the management group; the head of the management of a subsidiary or an independent company must permanently reside in Estonia. Reinsurance and retrocession, insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: None. | | 
| Reinsurance and retrocession (including intermediation): No company can operate as a reinsurer within the Republic of Cyprus unless so authorised by the Superintendent of Insurance. Investment by non-residents in reinsurance companies requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. The share of foreign participation in the capital of local reinsurance companies is determined on a case-by-case basis. Currently there is no local reinsurance company. Services auxiliary to insurance: None. | SI: Life insurance, non-life insurance, and reinsurance and retrocession: None. Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: For sole proprietors a residence in the Republic of Slovenia is required. | | 
| EE, LV, LT: None | | | 
| PL: Establishment in a form of joint stock company or a branch after obtaining a licence. | | | 
| No more than 5 % of insurance funds can be invested abroad. A person executing activities of the insurance intermediation must possess a licence. Local incorporation required for insurance intermediaries. | | | 
| SI: Life and non-life insurance: Establishment is subject to a licence issued by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign persons can establish an insurance company only as a joint-venture with domestic person, where participation of foreign persons is limited up to 99 %. | | | 
| The limitation on the maximum foreign ownership shall be abolished with the adoption of the new Law on Insurance Companies. | | | 
| A foreign person may acquire or increase shares in a domestic insurance company subject to a prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. | | | 
| Ministry of Finance, when issuing a licence or approval of acquiring shares in a domestic insurance company, takes into account the following criteria:the dispersion of ownership of shares and the existence of shareholders from different countries,the supply of new insurance products and the transfer of related know how, if the foreign investor is an insurance company. | | | 
| Unbound for foreign participation in insurance company under privatisation. | | | 
| Membership of the mutual insurance institution is limited to companies established in the Republic of Slovenia and domestic natural persons | | | 
| Reinsurance and retrocession: Foreign participation in reinsurance company is limited up to a controlling share of the capital. (None, except for branches, upon the adoption of the new law on Insurance companies). Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: For providing consultancy and claim settlement services, incorporation is required as a legal entity by consent of the Bureau of insurance. For actuaries and risk assessment activities provision of services through professional establishment only. Operation is limited to activities referred under A(i) and (ii) of this Schedule. | | | 
| 4.CY: Life, non-life insurance, insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: Unbound.Reinsurance and retrocession: Unbound. Natural persons are not authorised to provide reinsurance services. EE, LV, LT, MT: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). PL: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and subject to the following specific limitation: Residency requirement for insurance intermediaries. SI: Life insurance, non-life insurance, and reinsurance and retrocession Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). Insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and for actuarial and risk assessment residence is required in addition to a qualifying examination, membership in the Actuarial Association of the Republic of Slovenia and proficiency in the Slovene language. | 4.CY: Life, non-life insurance, insurance intermediation and services auxiliary to insurance: None.Reinsurance and retrocession: Unbound. Natural persons are not authorised to provide reinsurance services. EE, LT, MT, SI: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). LV, PL: None. | | 
II.2.FINANCIAL SERVICES-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (second part) | 
B.Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance).1.CY: Direct or indirect ownership or voting rights in a bank by a person and his/her associates may not exceed 10 % unless with the prior written approval of the Central Bank.2.CY: Further to the above, in the three existing local banks listed in the stock exchange, direct or indirect shareholding or acquisition of stake in their capital by foreign persons is restricted to 0,5 % per individual or organisation and 6,0 % collectively.3.LV: Mode 4: Manager of a branch and a subsidiary of a foreign bank shall be a Latvian tax payer (resident). The commitments on presence of natural persons are bound according to general provisions applicable to all sectors in this list.4.LT: All subsectors: At least one manager must be Lithuanian citizen. | 
(v)Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public(vi)Lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring and financing of commercial transaction(vii)Financial leasing MT: Not committed. PL: Not committed. (viii)All payment and money transmission services, including credit, charge and debit cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts MT: Not committed. | 1.CY: Subsectors (v) to (ix) and (x) (b): Unbound/only legal entities licensed by the Central Bank may offer banking services in the Republic of Cyprus.Subsectors (x) (e), (xv) and (xvi): None except as indicated in the horizontal section. All other subsectors: Unbound EE: Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public Requirement of authorisation by Eesti Pank and registration under Estonian Law as a joint-stock company, a subsidiary or a branch. EE, LT: The establishment of a specialised management company is required to perform the activities of management of unit trusts and investment companies, and only firms having their registered office in the Community can act as depositories of the assets of investment funds. | 1.CY: Unbound, except for:Subsectors (x) (e), (xv) and (xvi): None except as indicated in the horizontal section. EE, LV, LT, SI: None. MT: Subsectors (v) and (vi): None. Subsector (xv): Unbound, except for the provision of financial information by international providers. PL: Unbound, except for: Subsector (xv): None. | | 
(ix)Guarantees and commitments MT: Not committed. PL: Excluding guarantees and commitments of the State Treasury. (x)Trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an exchange, in an over-the-counter market or otherwise, the following:(a)money market instruments (including cheques, bills, certificates of deposits)(b)foreign exchange(c)derivative products including, but not limited to, futures and options(d)exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including products such as swaps, forward rate agreements | LV: Unbound, except for: Subsectors (xi), (xv) and (xvi): None. LT: Pension fund management: Commercial presence required. MT: Subsectors (v) and (vi): None. Subsector (xv): Unbound, except for the provision of financial information by international providers. PL: Unbound, except for: Subsector (xv): Requirement to use the public telecommunication network, or the network of other authorised operator, in the case of cross-border provision of these services. SI: None for subsector (xv) and (xvi). Unbound except accepting credits (borrowing of all types), and accepting guarantees and commitments from foreign credit institutions by domestic legal entities and sole proprietors. (Remark: consumer credits shall be free upon the adoption of the new Foreign Exchange Law). All abovementioned credit arrangements must be registered with the Bank of Slovenia. (Remark: this provision shall be abolished upon the adoption of the new Law on Banking.) Foreign persons can only offer foreign securities through domestic banks and stock broking company. Members of the Slovenian Stock Exchange must be incorporated in the Republic of Slovenia. | | | 
(e)transferable securities(f)other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including bullionMT: Not committed. PL: Only (x) (e) is committed. | | | | 
(xi)Participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting and placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) and provision of services related to such issuesMT: Not committed. PL: Excluding participation in issues of Treasury papers. SI: Excluding participation in issues of Treasury bonds. (xii)Money broking MT: Not committed. PL: Not committed. | 2.CY: Subsectors (v) to (xiv), except subsector (x) (e)Unbound, residents of Cyprus require permission from the Central Bank in conformity with the Exchange Control Law for borrowing in foreign currency or abroad, for placing funds abroad or for obtaining banking services that require export of funds. Subsector (x) (e), (xv) and (xvi) None except as indicated in the horizontal section. EE, LV, LT: None. MT: Subsectors (v) and (vi): None. Subsector (xv): Unbound, except for the provision of financial information by international providers. PL: Unbound, except for:Subsector (xv): Requirement to use the public telecommunication network, or the network of other authorised operator, in the case of consumption abroad of these services.Subsector (xvi): None. | 2.CY: Unbound, except for:Subsectors (x) (e), (xv) and (xvi): None except as indicated in the horizontal section. EE, LV, LT, SI: None. MT: Subsectors (v) and (vi): None. Subsector (xv): Unbound, except for the provision of financial information by international providers. PL: Unbound, except for: Subsector (xv) and (xvi): None. | | 
(xiii)Asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms of collective investment management, pension fund management, custodial, depository and trust servicesMT: Not committed. PL: Only portfolio management services. SI: Excluding pension fund management. | SI: None for subsectors (xv) and (xvi). Unbound except accepting credits (borrowing of all types), and accepting guarantees and commitments from foreign credit institutions by domestic legal entities and sole proprietors. (Remark: consumer credits shall be free upon the adoption of the new Foreign Exchange Law). All above mentioned credit arrangements must be registered with the Bank of Slovenia. (Remark: this provision shall be abolished upon the adoption of the new Law on Banking.) Legal entities established in the Republic of Slovenia can be depositories of the assets of Investments Funds. | | | 
(xiv)Settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instrumentsMT: Not committed. PL: Not committed. (xv)Provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data processing and related software by suppliers of other financial services | 3.All Member States:The establishment of a specialised management company is required to perform the activities of management of unit trusts and investment companies.Only firms having their registered office in the Community can act as depositories of the assets of investment funds.CY: All subsectors, except subsector (x) (e) For new banks the following requirements apply:(a)A licence is required from the Maltese financial authorities. An economic needs test may be applied. | 3.CY: All subsectors, except subsector (x) (e)None once established and licensed. Subsector (x) (e) A brokerage firm may only be registered as a member of the Cyprus Stock Exchange if it has been established and registered in accordance with the Companies Law of Cyprus. EE, LV, LT, MT, PL, SI: None. | | 
(xvi)Advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on all the activities listed in subparagraphs (v) through (xv), including credit reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice, advice on acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategyMT: Not committed. PL: Advisory and other auxiliary financial services only in relation to the activities committed for Poland. SI: Excluding advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services related to participation in issues of Treasury bonds and to pension fund management. | (b)Branches of foreign financial institutions must be registered in Cyprus under the Companies Law and licensed.Subsector (x) (e):Only members (brokers) of the Cyprus Stock Exchange can undertake business pertaining to securities brokerage in Cyprus. Firms acting as brokers must only employ individuals who can act as brokers provided that they are appropriately licensed. Banks and Insurance companies may not undertake brokerage business. However their subsidiary brokerage firms may do so. LV: Subsector (xi):The Bank of Latvia (Central Bank) is a financial agent of the government in the T-bills market.Subsector (xiii):Pension fund management is provided by State monopoly. LT: None, except as indicated in horizontal part of section "Banking and Other Financial Services", and for:Subsector (xiii):Establishment only as Public Stock Corporations (AB) and Close Corporations (UAB) which should be founded in closed manner (when all initially issued stock are acquired by incorporators). For the purpose of asset management, the establishment of a specialised management company is required. Only firms having their registered office in Lithuania can act as the depositories of the assets. As indicated in horizontal part of section "Banking and other financial services". | | | 
| MT: Unbound, except for:Subsectors (v) and (vi):Foreign-owned credit and other financial institutions may operate either in the form of a branch or a local subsidiary. | | | 
| PL: Subsectors (v), (vi), (viii) and (ix) (excluding guarantees and commitments of the State Treasury): Establishment of a bank only in a form of joint-stock company or a licensed branch. Nationality requirement for some, at least one, of the bank executives. | | | 
| Subsectors (x) (e), (xi) (excluding participation in issues of Treasury papers), (xiii) (only portfolio management services) and (xvi) (advisory and other auxiliary financial services only in relation to the activities committed for Poland): Establishment, after obtaining a licence, only in a form of joint-stock company or a branch of foreign legal entity providing securities services. | | | 
| Subsector (xv): Requirement to use the public telecommunication network, or the network of other authorised operator, in the case of cross-border provision and/or consumption abroad of these services. | | | 
| SI: None for subsectors (xv) and (xvi). | | | 
| Establishment of all types of banks are subject to a licence of the Bank of Slovenia. | | | 
| Foreign persons may become shareholders of banks or acquire additional shares of banks only subject to prior approval of the Bank of Slovenia (Remark: this provision shall be abolished upon the adoption of the new Law on Banking). | | | 
| Under licence of the Bank of Slovenia, banks, subsidiaries and branches of foreign banks can be permitted to provide all or limited banking services, depending on the amount of the capital. | | | 
| Unbound in relation to foreign participation in banks under privatisation. | | | 
| Branches of foreign banks must be incorporated in the Republic of Slovenia and have legal personality. (Remark: this provision shall be abolished upon the adoption of the new Law on Banking). | | | 
| Unbound with respect to all types of mortgage banks, savings and loans institutions. | | | 
| Unbound with respect to establishment of private pension funds (non-compulsory pension funds). | | | 
| Management Companies are commercial companies established solely for the purpose of managing investment funds. | | | 
| Foreign persons may directly or indirectly acquire a maximum up to 20 % of shares or voting rights of management companies; for a larger percentage an approval of the Securities Market Agency is required. | | | 
| An Authorised (privatisation) Investment Company is an investment company established solely for the purpose of gathering the ownership certificates (vouchers) and the purchase of shares issued in accordance with regulations on ownership transformation. An Authorised Management Company is established solely for the purpose of managing the authorised investment companies. | | | 
| Foreign persons may directly or indirectly acquire a maximum up to 10 % of shares or voting rights of Authorised (privatisation) Management Companies; for a larger percentage an approval of the Securities Market Agency is required with the consent of the Ministry of Economic Relations and Development. | | | 
| Investments of the Investments Funds into securities of foreign issuers are limited to 10 % of the investments of the Investments Funds. Such securities shall be listed on those stock exchanges previously determined by the Securities Market Agency. | | | 
| Foreign persons may become shareholders or partners in a stock broking company up to 24 % of the capital of the stock broking company by prior approval of the Securities Market Agency. (Remark: this provision shall be abolished upon the adoption of the new Law on Securities Market). | | | 
| Securities of a foreign issuer which have not yet been offered in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia may only be offered by a stock broking company or a bank licensed to carry out such transactions. Prior to launching the offer the stock broking company or a bank shall obtain the permission of Securities Market Agency. | | | 
| The request for this permission to offer securities of a foreign issuer in the Republic of Slovenia shall be accompanied by draft prospectus, documentation that the guarantor of the issue of securities of the foreign issuer is a bank or a stock broking company, except in the case of the issue of shares of a foreign issuer. | | | 
| 4.CY: All subsectors, except subsector (x) (e): Unbound.Subsector (x) (e): Individuals, whether acting alone as brokers or employed by broker firms as brokers, are required to meet the licensing criteria for this purpose. EE, LT, MT, SI: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). LV: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and in the horizontal section of the sector "Banking and other financial services". PL: Subsectors (v), (vi), (viii) and (ix) (excluding guarantee and commitments of the State Treasury): Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). Nationality requirement for some, at least one, of the bank executives. Subsectors (x) (e), (xi) (excluding participation in issues of Treasury papers), (xiii) (only portfolio management services), (xv) and (xvi) (advisory and other auxiliary financial services only in relation to the activities committed for Poland): Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). | 4.CY: All subsectors, except subsector (x) (e): Unbound. For financial institutions foreign employees residence and work permit required.Subsector (x) (e): None except as indicated in the horizontal section. EE, LT, MT, SI: Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii). LV: None except as indicated in the horizontal section under (i) and (ii) and in the horizontal section of the sector "Banking and other financial services". PL: None. | | 
ADDITIONAL COMMITMENTS BY PART OF THE EC 
(AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) 
Insurance 
(a) Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) notes the close cooperation among the insurance regulatory and supervisory authorities of these Member States and encourages their efforts to promote improved supervisory standards. 
(b) These Member States will make their best endeavours to consider within six months from their submissions complete applications for licences to conduct direct insurance underwriting business, through the establishment in a Member State of a subsidiary in accordance with the legislation of that Member State, by an undertaking governed by the laws of Chile. In cases where such applications are refused, the Member State authority will make its best endeavours to notify the undertaking in question and give the reasons for the refusal of the application. 
(c) The supervisory authorities of these Member States will make their best endeavours to respond without undue delay to requests for information by applicants on the status of complete applications for licences to conduct direct insurance underwriting business, through the establishment in a Member State of a subsidiary in accordance with the legislation of that Member State by an undertaking governed by the laws of Chile. 
(d) Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) will make its best endeavours to examine any questions pertaining to the smooth operation of the internal market in insurance, and consider any issues that might have an impact on the internal market in insurance. 
(e) Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) notes that, as regards motor insurance, under Community law as in force on 1 September 2001, and without prejudice to future legislation, premiums may be calculated taking several risk factors into account. 
(f) Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) notes that under Community law, as in force on 1 September 2001, and without prejudice to future legislation, the prior approval by national supervisory authorities of policy conditions and scales of premiums that an insurance undertaking intends to use is generally not required. 
(g) Part of the EC (AT, BE, DK, DE, ES, FI, FR, EL, IE, IT, LU, NL, PT, SE, UK) notes that under Community law, as in force on 1 September 2001, and without prejudice to future legislation, the prior approval by national supervisory authorities of increases in premium rates is generally not required. 
Other financial services 
(a) In application of the relevant EC Directives, these Member States will make their best endeavours to consider within 12 months complete applications for licences to conduct banking activities, through the establishment in a Member State of a subsidiary in accordance with the legislation of that Member State, by an undertaking governed by the laws of Chile. In cases where such applications are refused, the Member State will make its best endeavours to notify the undertaking in question and give the reasons for the refusal of the application. 
(b) These Member States will make their best endeavours to respond without undue delay to requests for information by applicants on the status of complete applications for licenses to conduct banking activities, through the establishment in a Member State of a subsidiary in accordance with the legislation of that Member State, by an undertaking governed by the laws of Chile. 
(c) In application of the relevant EC Directives, these Member States will make their best endeavours to consider within six months complete applications for licences to conduct investment services in the securities field, as defined in the Investment Services Directive, through the establishment in a Member State of a subsidiary in accordance with the legislation of that Member State, by an undertaking governed by the laws of Chile. In cases where such applications are refused, the Member State will make its best endeavours to notify the undertaking in question and give the reasons for the refusal of the application. 
(d) These Member States will make their best endeavours to respond without undue delay to requests for information by applicants on the status of complete applications for licences to conduct investment services in the securities area, through the establishment in a Member State of a subsidiary in accordance with the legislation of that Member State, by an undertaking governed by the laws of Chile. 
UNDERSTANDING ON COMMITMENTS IN FINANCIAL SERVICES 
The Community has been enabled to take on specific commitments with respect to financial services under this Agreement on the basis of an alternative approach to that covered by the general provisions of part IV, Chapter II (Financial Services), thereof. It was agreed that this approach could be applied subject to the following understanding: 
(i) it does not conflict with the provisions of this Agreement; 
(ii) no presumption has been created as to the degree of liberalisation to which a Party is committing itself under this Agreement. 
The Community, on the basis of negotiations, and subject to conditions and qualifications where specified, has inscribed in its schedule specific commitments conforming to the approach set out below. 
A. Market access 
Cross-border trade 
1. The Community shall permit non-resident suppliers of financial services to supply, as a principal, through an intermediary or as an intermediary, and under terms and conditions that accord national treatment, the following services: 
(a) insurance of risks relating to: 
(i) maritime shipping and commercial aviation and space launching and freight (including satellites), with such insurance to cover any or all of the following: the goods being transported, the vehicle transporting the goods and any liability arising therefrom; and 
(ii) goods in international transit; 
(b) reinsurance and retrocession and the services auxiliary to insurance as referred to in subparagraph (iv) of Article 117(9); 
(c) provision and transfer of financial information and financial data processing as referred to in subparagraph (xv) of Article 117(9) and advisory and other auxiliary services, excluding intermediation, relating to banking and other financial services as referred to in subparagraph (xvi) of Article 117(9). 
2. The Community shall permit its residents to purchase in the territory of Chile the financial services indicated in: 
(a) subparagraph 1(a); 
(b) subparagraph 1(b); and 
(c) subparagraphs (v) to (xvi) of Article 117(9). 
Commercial presence 
3. The Community shall grant financial service suppliers of Chile the right to establish or expand within its territory, including through the acquisition of existing enterprises, a commercial presence. 
4. The Community may impose terms, conditions and procedures for authorisation of the establishment and expansion of a commercial presence in so far as they do not circumvent its obligation under paragraph 3 and they are consistent with the other obligations of this Agreement. 
Temporary entry of personnel 
5. (a) The Community shall permit temporary entry into its territory of the following personnel of a financial service supplier of Chile that is establishing or has established a commercial presence in the territory of the Community: 
(i) senior managerial personnel possessing proprietary information essential to the establishment, control and operation of the services of the financial service supplier; and 
(ii) specialists in the operation of the financial service supplier. 
(b) The Community shall permit, subject to the availability of qualified personnel in its territory, temporary entry into its territory of the following personnel associated with a commercial presence of a financial service supplier of Chile: 
(i) specialists in computer services, telecommunication services and accounts of the financial service supplier; and 
(ii) actuarial and legal specialists. 
Non-discriminatory measures 
6. The Community shall endeavour to remove or to limit any significant adverse effects on financial service suppliers of Chile of: 
(a) non-discriminatory measures that prevent financial service suppliers from offering in the Community's territory, in the form determined by the Community, all the financial services permitted by the Community; 
(b) non-discriminatory measures that limit the expansion of the activities of financial service suppliers into the entire territory of the Community; 
(c) measures of the Community, when it applies the same measures to the supply of both banking and securities services, and a financial service supplier of Chile concentrates its activities in the provision of securities services; and 
(d) other measures that, although respecting the provisions of this Agreement, affect adversely the ability of financial service suppliers of Chile to operate, compete or enter the Community's market; 
provided that any action taken under this paragraph would not unfairly discriminate against financial service suppliers of the Party taking such action. 
7. With respect to the non-discriminatory measures referred to in subparagraphs 6(a) and (b), the Community shall endeavour not to limit or restrict the present degree of market opportunities nor the benefits already enjoyed by financial service suppliers of Chile as a class in the territory of the Community, provided that this commitment does not result in unfair discrimination against financial service suppliers of the Community. 
B. National treatment 
1. Under terms and conditions that accord national treatment, the Community shall grant to financial service suppliers of Chile established in its territory access to payment and clearing systems operated by public entities, and to official funding and refinancing facilities available in the normal course of ordinary business. This paragraph is not intended to confer access to the Community's lender of last resort facilities. 
2. When membership or participation in, or access to, any self-regulatory body, securities or futures exchange or market, clearing agency, or any other organisation or association, is required by the Community in order for financial service suppliers of Chile to supply financial services on an equal basis with financial service suppliers of the Community, or when the Community provides directly or indirectly such entities, privileges or advantages in supplying financial services, the Community shall ensure that such entities accord national treatment to Chilean financial service suppliers resident in its territory. 
C. Definitions 
For the purposes of this approach: 
1. A non-resident supplier of financial services is a financial service supplier of Chile which supplies a financial service into the territory of the Community from an establishment located in the territory of Chile, regardless of whether such a financial service supplier has or has not a commercial presence in the territory of the Community. 
2. "Commercial presence" means an enterprise within the Community's territory for the supply of financial services and includes wholly- or partly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, partnerships, sole proprietorships, franchising operations, branches, agencies, representative offices or other organisations. 
[1] In the case of Austria, Finland and Sweden no horizontal reservation has been taken for services considered as public utilities. 
[2] Explanatory Note: Public utilities exist in sectors such as related scientific and technical consulting services, R %amp% D services on social sciences and humanities, technical testing and analysis services, environmental services, health services, transport services and services auxiliary to all modes of transport. Exclusive rights on such services are often granted to private operators, for instance operators with concessions from public authorities, subject to specific service obligations. Given that public utilities often also exist at the subcentral level, detailed and exhaustive sector-specific scheduling is not practical. 
[3] Exceptions from these requirements may be granted, if it can be proved that residency is not necessary. 
[4] SI: According to the Law on Commercial Companies, a branch established in the Republic of Slovenia is not considered a juridical person, but as regards their operation, their treatment is equal to a subsidiary. 
[5] Commercial, industrial or artisanal activities relate to sectors such as: other business services, construction, distribution and tourism services. It does not relate to telecommunications and financial services. 
[6] CZ: Non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange control is applied consisting of: 
- limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes; 
- foreign exchange authorisation in case of Czech residents for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investment abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchases of foreign securities. 
[7] PL: There is non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange controls relating to limitations in foreign exchange turnover and to system of foreign exchange permits (general and individual) among others limitations of capital flows and currency payments. The following foreign exchange transactions require authorisation: 
- transfer of foreign exchange out of the country, 
- transfer of Polish currency into the country, 
- ownership transfer of the right to monetary assets between domestic and foreign persons, 
- granting and drawing of loans and credits by domestic persons in foreign exchange transactions, 
- fixing or executing payments in foreign currencies within Poland for acquired goods, real estate, property rights, services or labour, 
- opening and possessing of a banking account in a bank situated abroad, 
- acquiring and holding foreign securities and acquiring real estate abroad, 
- undertaking other obligations abroad of similar effect. 
[8] SK: Entries being listed for transparency reasons. 
[9] PL: The footnote under market access is also applicable for national treatment. 
[10] The duration of "temporary stay" is defined by the Member States and, where they exist, Community laws and regulations regarding entry, stay and work. The precise duration can vary according to the different categories of natural persons mentioned in this schedule. For category (i), the length of stay is limited in the following Member States as follows: EE — three years, which may be extended for up to two additional years for a total term not to exceed five years; LV — five years; LT — three years, extendable in the case of senior personnel only for up to two additional years; PL and SI — one year, which may be extended. For category (ii), the length of stay is limited in the following Member States as follows: EE — 90 days per six month period; PL — three months; LT — three months a year; HU, LV, SI — 90 days. 
[11] All other requirements of Community and Member States' laws and regulations regarding entry, stay, work and social security measures shall continue to apply, including regulations concerning period of stay, minimum wages as well as collective wage agreements. 
[12] An "intra-corporate transferee" is defined as a natural person working within a legal person, other than a non-profit making organisation, established in the territory of Chile, and being temporarily transferred in the context of the provision of a service through commercial presence in the territory of a Member State; the legal persons concerned must have their principal place of business in the territory of Chile and the transfer must be to an establishment (office, branch or subsidiary) of that legal person, effectively providing like services in the territory of a Member State to which the EC Treaty applies. 
[13] Commercial, industrial or artisanal activities relate to sectors such as: other business services, construction, distribution and tourism services. It does not relate to telecommunications and financial services. 
[14] Unlike foreign subsidiaries, branches established directly in a Member State by a Chilean financial institution are not , with certain limited exceptions, subject to prudential regulations harmonised at Community level which enable such subsidiaries to benefit from enhanced facilities to set up new establishments and to provide cross-border services throughout the Community. Therefore, such branches receive an authorisation to operate in the territory of a Member State under conditions equivalent to those applied to domestic financial institutions of that Member State, and may be required to satisfy a number of specific prudential requirements such as, in the case of banking and securities, separate capitalisation and other solvency requirements and reporting and publication of accounts requirements or, in the case of insurance, specific guarantee and deposit requirements, a separate capitalisation, and the localisation in the Member State concerned of the assets representing the technical reserves and at least one third of the solvency margin. Member States may apply the restrictions indicated in this schedule only with regard to the direct establishment from Chilean of a commercial presence or to the provision of cross-border services from Chile; consequently, a Member State may not apply these restrictions, including those concerning establishment, to Chilean subsidiaries established in other Member States of the Community, unless these restrictions can also be applied to companies or nationals of other Member States in conformity with Community law. 
[15] CZ: When monopoly rights concerning compulsory motor third party liability insurance are removed, providing this service will be open on a non-discriminatory basis to Czech established service providers. 
[16] IT: Provision and transfer of financial information and financial data processing entailing trading of financial instruments may be prohibited where the protection of investors is likely to be seriously prejudiced. Only authorised banks and investment firms must comply with conduct of business rules in providing investment advice concerning financial instruments and advice to undertakings on capital structure, industrial strategy and related matters, and advice and service relating to mergers and acquisition of undertakings. Advisory activity should not include asset management. 
[17] IT: Authorised persons enabled to conduct collective asset management are deemed responsible for any investment activity conducted by their delegated advisers (Collective asset management, excluding UCITS). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX VII 
AUTHORITIES RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Part A - For the Community and its Member States 
European Commission | DG Trade DG Internal Market | B-1049 Brussels | 
Austria | Ministry of Finance | Directorate Economic Policy and Financial Markets Himmelpfortgasse 4-8 Postfach 2 A-1015 Vienna | 
Belgium | Ministry of Economy | Rue de Bréderode 7 B-1000 Brussels | 
| Ministry of Finance | Rue de la Loi 12 B-1000 Brussels | 
Cyprus | Ministry of Finance | CY-1439 Nicosia | 
Czech Republic | Ministry of Finance | Letenská 15 CZ-118 10 Prague | 
Denmark | Ministry of Economic Affairs | Ved Stranden 8 DK-1061 Copenhagen K | 
Estonia | Ministry of Finance | Suur-Ameerika 1 EE-15006 Tallinn | 
Finland | Ministry of Finance | PO Box 28 FIN-00023 Helsinki | 
France | Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry | Ministère de l'économie, des finances et de l'industrie 139, rue de Bercy F-75572 Paris | 
Germany | Ministry of Finance | Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht Graurheindorfer Str. 108 D-53117 Bonn | 
Greece | Bank of Greece | Panepistimiou Street, 21 GR-10563 Athens | 
Hungary | Ministry of Finance | Pénzügyminisztérium Postafiók 481 HU-1369 Budapest | 
Ireland | Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority | PO Box 9138 College Green Dublin 2 Ireland | 
Italy | Ministry of Treasury | Ministero del Tesoro Via XX Settembre 97 I-00187 Rome | 
Latvia | Financial and Capital Market Commission | Kungu Street 1 LV-1050 Riga | 
Lithuania | Ministry of Finance | Vaizganto 8a/2, LT-01512 Vilnius | 
Luxembourg | Ministry of Finance | Ministère des Finances 3, rue de la Congrégation L-2931 Luxembourg | 
Malta | Financial Services Authority | Notabile Road MT-Attard | 
Netherlands | Ministry of Finance | Financial Markets Policy Directorate Postbus 20201 2500 EE The Hague The Netherlands | 
Poland | Ministry of Finance | ul. Świętokrzyska 12 PL-00-916 Warsaw | 
Portugal | Ministry of Finance | Direcção Geral dos Assuntos Europeus e Relações Internacionais Av. Infante D. Henrique, 1C-1o P-1100-278 Lisbon | 
Slovak Republic | Ministry of Finance | Stefanovicova 5 SK-817 82 Bratislava | 
Slovenia | Ministry of Economy | Kotnikova 5 SI-1000 Ljubljana | 
Spain | Treasury | Directora General del Tesoro y Politica Financiera Paseo del Prado 6-6a Planta E-28071 Madrid | 
Sweden | Financial Supervisory Authority | Box 6750 S-113 85 Stockholm | 
| Swedish Central Bank | Malmskillnadsgatan 7 S-103 37 Stockholm | 
| Swedish Consumer Agency | Rosenlundsgatan 9 S-118 87 Stockholm | 
United Kingdom | HM Treasury | 1 Horse Guards Road London SW1A 2HQ United Kingdom | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX VIII 
(referred to in Article 132 of the Agreement) 
SCHEDULES OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS ON ESTABLISHMENT 
PART A 
Community's schedule 
Introductory note 
1. The specific commitments in this schedule apply only to the territories in which the Treaties establishing the Community are applied and under the conditions laid down in these Treaties. These commitments apply only to the relations between the Community and its Member States on the one hand, and non-Community countries on the other. They do not affect the rights and obligations of Member States arising from Community law. 
2. The following abbreviations are used to indicate the Member States: 
AT Austria 
BE Belgium 
CY Cyprus 
CZ Czech Republic 
DE Germany 
DK Denmark 
ES Spain 
EE Estonia 
FR France 
FI Finland 
EL Greece 
HU Hungary 
IT Italy 
IE Ireland 
LU Luxembourg 
LT Lithuania 
LV Latvia 
MT Malta 
NL The Netherlands 
PT Portugal 
PL Poland 
SE Sweden 
SI Slovenia 
SK Slovak Republic 
UK United Kingdom 
"Subsidiary" of a legal person means a legal person which is effectively controlled by another legal person. 
"Branch" of a legal person means a place of business not having legal personality which has the appearance of permanency, such as the extension of a parent body, has a management and is materially equipped to negotiate business with third parties so that the latter, although knowing that there will if necessary be a legal link with the parent body, the head office of which is abroad, do not have to deal directly with such parent body but may transact business at the place of business constituting the extension. 
Sector or subsector | Limitations on national treatment to establishment | 
1.HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS | 
All sectors included in this schedule | | 
| (a)Treatment accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community is not extended to branches or agencies established in a Member State by a Chilean company. However, this does not prevent a Member State from extending this treatment to branches or agencies established in another Member State by a Chilean company or firm, as regards their operation in the first Member State's territory, unless such extension is explicitly prohibited by Community law | 
| (b)Treatment less favourable may be accorded to subsidiaries (of Chilean companies) formed in accordance with the law of a Member State which have only their registered office or central administration in the territory of the Community, unless it can be shown that they possess an effective and continuous link with the economy of one of the Member States. | 
| Formation of Legal Entity AT: Without prejudice to existing treaties, foreign natural persons may exercise a business on equal terms as Austrian nationals. However, evidence has to be presented to the competent authority that Austrian natural persons are in no way discriminated in the exercise of the relevant business in the foreigner's home country. If this evidence cannot be presented, the foreign natural person has to apply formally for equal status with nationals. If the holder of a business permit is not a permanent resident of Austria, the appointment of a professional representative (gewerberechtlicher Geschäftsführer) permanently residing in Austria is necessary. In order to acquire a business permit, foreign juridical persons or partnerships must set up an establishment and appoint a professional representative permanently residing in Austria. Without prejudice to existing treaties a foreign professional representative has to apply for equal status with nationals. FI: At least half of the founders of a limited company need to be natural persons residing within EEA (European Economic Area) or juridical persons having their domicile in one of the EEA countries, unless the Ministry of Trade and Industry grants an exception. SE: A limited liability company (joint stock company) may be established by one or several founders. A founding party shall either reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) or be an EEA legal entity. A partnership can only be a founding party if each partner resides within the EEA [1]. The managing director and at least 50 % of the members of the board shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area). Corresponding conditions prevail for establishment of other types of legal entities. | 
| CZ: Foreign natural persons may exercise a business on equal terms as Czech nationals. However, foreign natural persons can pursue activities as self employed persons and set up and manage undertakings only by registering such undertaking in the Commercial Register, unless the person resides within the EEA (European Economic Area). If the natural persons/legal entity has not a permanent residence/seat within the EEA, it must additionally deposit data or a document on the encumbrance of the undertaking's assets in a foreign state, if the validity of a security is bound to its publication, and some other additional data, in the Commercial Register. Before registering in the Commercial Register, foreign legal persons must set up an establishment in the Czech Republic and appoint a professional representative permanently residing in the Czech Republic. MT: Applications by non-residents for the issue, acquisition, sale and redemption of securities not listed on the Malta Stock Exchange in local companies established, or to be established, in Malta have to be cleared by the Registrar of Companies at the Malta Financial Services Authority MFSA).This procedure does not apply to companies as defined in Article 2 of the Income Tax Act, (that is, international holding/trading companies) and to companies which own a vessel registered under the Merchant Shipping Act, and where the resident participation does not exceed 20 %. PL: Foreigners who have received permission for residence on the territory of Poland, permission for tolerated stay, refugee status granted in Poland or who enjoy temporary protection on its territory, may undertake and pursue economic activity on the territory of Poland on the same rules as Polish citizens. Following reciprocity requirements, if ratified international agreements do not provide otherwise, foreign persons may take up and pursue economic activity on the territory of Poland on the same rules as entrepreneurs having their seat in Poland. When there is no reciprocity, foreign persons have the right to undertake and pursue economic activity on the territory of Poland only in a form of limited partnership, limited liability company and joint-stock company; they have also right to join these companies or to take and buy their shares or stocks. | 
| Law on Foreign Companies' Branches SE: A foreign company (which has not established a legal entity in Sweden) shall conduct its commercial operations through a branch, established in Sweden with independent management and separate accounts. Building projects with a duration of less than a year are exempted from the requirements of establishing a branch or appointing a resident representative. SE: The managing director of a branch shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) [1]. SE: Foreign or Swedish citizens not residing in Sweden, who wish to conduct commercial operations in Sweden, shall appoint and register with the local authority a resident representative responsible for such activities. LT: At least one representative of the foreign company branch must be resident in Lithuania. PL: Branches — to conduct economic activity on the territory of Poland, foreign entrepreneurs may establish branches, following the rule of reciprocity requirements, if ratified international agreements do not state otherwise. The economic activity of the branch must be similar to the one which is conducted by the foreign entrepreneur and the person entitled to represent the foreign entrepreneur must be appointed. Branch is required to be registered and run separate accountancy. | 
| Agencies — foreign entrepreneurs may create agencies. The economic activity of the agency may cover only promotion and advertisement of foreign entrepreneurs. An agency is required to be registered and run separate accountancy. | 
| SI: The establishment of branches by foreign companies is conditioned with the registration of the parent company in a court register in the country of origin for at least one year. | 
| Legal entities: AT: Only Austrian nationals or legal entities and enterprises having their seat in Austria may be shareholders of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank (Austrian National Bank). Members of the management must be Austrian nationals. FI: At least half of the members of the board and the managing director shall reside within the EEA (European Economic Area) unless the Ministry of Trade and Industry grants an exception to the company. FI: Acquisition of shares by foreign owners giving more than one third of the voting rights of a major Finnish company or a major business undertaking (with more than 1000 employees or with a turnover exceeding EUR 167 million or with a balance sheet total exceeding EUR 167 million) is subject to confirmation by the Finnish authorities; the confirmation may be denied only if an important national interest would be jeopardised. A foreigner living outside the European Economic Area and carrying on a trade as a private entrepreneur or as a partner in a Finnish limited or general partnership needs a trade permit. If a foreign organisation or foundation is established under the laws of and has its registered office in an EEA-country no permit is required for carrying on a business or trade by establishing a branch in Finland. | 
| Real estate purchases: AT: The acquisition, purchase as well as rent or lease of real estate by foreign natural persons and juridical persons requires an authorisation by the competent regional authorities (Länder) which will consider whether important economic, social or cultural interests are affected or not. CY: Unbound. CZ: The real estate can be acquired solely by natural persons having their permanent residence, and legal persons with their seat or branch in the territory of the Czech Republic. Special regime applies to the agricultural land and forests, which can be acquired only by residents (i.e. natural persons with permanent residents or legal persons with their seat in the territory of the Czech Republic) and the participation in the privatisation of the State agricultural land and forests is limited solely to the citizens of the Czech Republic. EE: Reservation to the purchase of agricultural land and forests, as well as land in the border areas. DK: Limitations on real estate purchase by non-resident physical and legal entities. Limitations on agricultural estate purchased by foreign physical and legal entities. ES: Reservation to the purchase of real estate by governments, official institutions and public enterprises originating in non-Community member countries. EL: According to Law No 1892/90, as amended by Law No 1969/91, acquisition of real estate in the border regions either directly or through equity participation in a company which is not listed in the Greek Stock Exchange and which owns real estate in those regions or any change in the persons of the stockholders of such company are subject to a permit issued by the competent authorities (Ministry of Defence in the case of non-EU natural or legal persons). IE: Prior written consent of the Land Commission is necessary for the acquisition of any interest in Irish land by domestic or foreign companies or foreign nationals. Where such land is for industrial use (other than agricultural industry), this requirement is waived subject to a certificate to this effect from the Minister for Enterprise and Employment. This law does not apply to land within the boundaries of cities and towns. | 
| HU: Unbound for the acquisition of state owned properties by foreign natural persons and juridical persons. LT: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by foreign subjects (natural and legal persons), however they may manage or use such property in accordance with the procedure established by Lithuanian laws. LV: Unbound in relation to acquisition of land by juridical persons. Land lease not exceeding 99 years permitted. MT: The requirements of Maltese legislation and regulations regarding the acquisition of real property shall continue to apply. SI: Juridical persons, established in the Republic of Slovenia with foreign capital participation, may acquire real estate on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Branches [2], established in the Republic of Slovenia by foreign persons may only acquire real estate, except land, necessary for the conduct of the economic activities for which they are established. Ownership of real estate in the border areas of 10 km by companies in which majority of capital or voting rights belongs directly or indirectly to juridical persons or nationals of another Member is subject to special permission. SK: Limitations on real estate acquisition by foreign physical and legal entities. Foreign entities may acquire real property through establishment of Slovak legal entities or participation in joint ventures. Acquisition of the land by foreign entities is subject to authorisation. IT: Unbound for purchase of real estate. FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right for natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, and for legal persons, to acquire and hold real property on the Åland Islands without permission by the competent authorities of the islands. FI (Åland Islands): Restrictions on the right of establishment and the right to provide services by natural persons who do not enjoy regional citizenship in Åland, or by any legal person, without permission by the competent authorities of the Åland Islands. PL: Acquisition of real estate, direct and indirect, by foreigners and foreign legal persons requires permission. PL: Unbound, except for: buying independent apartment or buying real estate by a foreign national living in Poland at least for 5 years after obtaining the permanent residence card; buying by a legal person with a corporate seat in Poland and controlled directly or indirectly by a foreign natural person or a foreign legal person with a corporate seat abroad, for statutory objectives, of real estate without buildings, whose total area in Poland does not exceed 0,4 ha in urban area. | 
| Investments: CY: Portfolio investment: Investors from non-EU countries may invest only up to 49 % of the share capital of Cypriot companies listed on the Cyprus Stock Exchange. Transactions involving such investments may be carried out by Cypriot stockbrokers and public companies without reference to the Central Bank of Cyprus. CY: Entities with foreign participation must have paid up capital commensurate with their finance requirements and non residents must finance their contribution through the importation of foreign exchange. In case the non-resident participation exceeds 24 %, any additional financing for working capital requirements or otherwise should be raised from local and foreign sources in proportion to the participation of residents and non-residents in the entity's equity. In the case of branches of foreign companies, all capital for the initial investment must be provided from foreign sources. Borrowing from local sources is only permitted after the initial implementation of the project, for financing working capital requirements. ES: Investment in Spain by foreign government and foreign public entities (which tends to imply, besides economic, also non-economic interests to entity's part), directly or through companies or other entities controlled directly or indirectly by foreign governments, need prior authorisation by the government. FR: Foreign purchases exceeding 33,33 % of the shares of capital or voting rights in existing French enterprise, or 20 % in publicly quoted French companies, are subject to the following regulations: after a period of one month following prior notification, authorisation is tacitly granted for other investments unless the Minister of Economic Affairs has, in exceptional circumstances, exercised its right to postpone the investment.FR: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the government of France on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public. FR: For establishing in certain commercial, industrial or artisanal activities, a specific authorisation is needed if the managing director is not holder of a permanent residence permit. HU: Participation in organising gambling, betting, lotteries and similar activities is reserved for the state. IT: Exclusive rights may be granted or maintained to newly-privatised companies. Voting rights in newly privatised companies may be restricted in some cases. For a period of five years, the acquisition of large equity stakes of companies operating in the fields of defence, and energy may be subject to the approval of the Ministry of Treasury. LT: Investments in organising the lotteries are forbidden under the Law on Foreign Capital Investment. MT: Companies with the participation of non-resident legal or natural persons are subject to the same capital requirement applicable to companies that are fully owned by residents, as follows: private companies — Lm500 (with a minimum of 20 % as paid up capital); public companies — Lm200 (with a minimum of 25 % paid up capital). The non-resident percentage of share of the equity is to be paid for with funds emanating from abroad. Companies with non-resident participation must apply for a permit from the Ministry of Finance to acquire premises under the appropriate legislation. PT: Foreign participation in newly privatised companies may be limited to a variable amount, determined by the Government of Portugal on a case by case basis, of the equity offered to the public. | 
| PL: Authorisation of the establishment of a company with foreign equity is required in the case of: establishment of company, purchase or acquiring of shares or stocks in an existing company; extending of the activity of the company when the scope of activity embraces at least one of the following areas:management of seaports and airports;dealing in real estate or acting as intermediary in real estate transactions;supply to defence industry that is not covered by other licensing requirements;wholesale trade in imported consumer goods;provision of legal advisory services.establishment of a joint-venture company with a foreign equity in which the Polish party is a state legal person and is contributing non-pecuniary assets as initial capital;arranging a contract, that includes right to use of state property for more than six months or decides on acquiring of such property. | 
| Exchange regime [3], [4], [5] CY: Under the Exchange Control Law, non-residents are not normally permitted to borrow from local sources. SK: In relation to current payments, limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes. In relation to capital payments, foreign exchange authorisation required for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investments abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchase of foreign securities. | 
| Residency requirements AT: Managing directors of branches and juridical persons have to be resident in Austria; natural persons responsible within a juridical person or a branch for the observance of the Austrian Trade Act must be resident in Austria. AT: All foreigners are subject to the provisions of the Foreigner's Act and the Residence Act concerning entry, stay and work. In addition, foreign workers, including key personnel and investors, except for EEA nationals, are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Labour Act including the labour market test and the quota system. If an investor commits an investment which has a positive effect on the entire Austrian economy or a whole sector of the Austrian economy, the labour market test can be dropped for him and for individual cases of essential key personnel. Investors who furnish proof that they hold at least 25 % in a partnership (Personengesellschaft) or a public limited company (Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung) and that they exert a decisive influence on that company are exempted from the Foreign Labour Act. LT: At least one of representative of the foreign company branch must be resident in Lithuania. MT: The requirements of Maltese legislation and regulations regarding entry and stay shall continue to apply, including regulations concerning period of stay. Entry and residence permits are granted at the discretion of the Government of Malta. SK: A foreign natural person whose name is to be registered in the Commercial Register as a person authorised to act on behalf of the entrepreneur is required to submit residence permit for the Slovak Republic. | 
Sector or subsector | Limitations on national treatment to establishment | 
2.SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS (based on UN ISIC rev.3 classification) | 
A.Agriculture, hunting, forestry | | 
1.Agriculture, hunting excluding services2.Forestry, logging excluding services | AT: Reservation. CY: Up to 49 % non-EU participation is allowed. The indicative minimum level of investment is CY£ 100000. FR: Reservation on the establishment of agricultural enterprises by nationals of countries that are not members of the Community and the acquisition of vineyards. HU: Unbound. IE: Reservation on the acquisition by non-Community nationals of land for agricultural purposes, unless an authorisation is granted; Investment by non-Community residents in flour milling activities. LT: Unbound in relation of the acquisition by foreign subjects (natural and legal persons) into ownership of land, internal waters and forests in accordance with constitutional law. MT: Unbound. SK: Reservation on the acquisition of land for agricultural purposes and other land as set in the Foreign Exchange Act, unless an authorisation is granted. | 
B.Fishing | | 
5.Fishing, operation of fish hatcheries and fish farms; excluding services. | AT: acquisition of 25 % or more of vessels registered in Austria. BE: Reservation on the acquisition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies not having their principal office in Belgium. CY: Up to 49 % non-EU participation is allowed. The indicative minimum level of investment is CY£ 100000. DK: Reservation on the ownership by non-EC residents of one-third or more of a business engaged in commercial fishing; ownership of flag vessels by non-EC residents except through an enterprise incorporated in Denmark. FR: reservation on the settling of non-Community nationals or non-EFTA nationals on the maritime State property for fish/shallfish/algae farming. FI: Reservation on the ownership of Finnish flag vessels, including fishing vessels, except through an enterprise incorporated in Finland. F: reservation on the ownership after acquisition of more than 50 % of a French flag vessel, unless the vessel concerned is entirely owned by enterprises having their principal office in France. DE: Sea fishing licence granted only to vessels entitled to fly the flag of Germany. These are fishing vessels of which the majority of shares is owned by Community citizens or companies established in accordance with Community rules and that have their principal place of business in a Member State. The use of the vessels must be headed and supervised by persons residing in Germany. In order to obtain a fishing licence, all fishing vessels must register with the relevant coastal states in which the ships have their homeports. EE: Ships are entitled to fly the Estonian flag if located in Estonia and majority ownership is held by Estonian nationals in general partnership and in limited partnership companies, or other legal entities that are located in Estonia with voting majority held by Estonian nationals in the Board of Management. EL: ownership of a vessel under the Greek flag is limited to 49 % for non-EU natural or legal persons. HU: Unbound. IE: reservation on the acquisition by non-Community nationals of sea fishing vessels registered in Ireland. IT: reservation on the purchase by foreigners other than Community residents of a majority interest in Italian flag vessels or of a controlling interest in ship owning companies having their headquarters in Italy; purchase of Italian flag vessels used to fish in Italian territorial waters. LT: Unbound. LV: Reservation as regards registration of ownership of Latvia's fishing vessels by natural persons who are not either citizens or non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia or are not Latvia's legal persons, except through an enterprise established in Latvia. MT: Unbound. | 
| NL: reservation on the ownership of Netherlands flag vessels, unless the investment is made by shipping companies incorporated under Netherlands law, established in the Kingdom and having their actual place of management in the Netherlands. PT: reservation on the ownership of Portuguese flag vessels other than through an enterprise incorporated in Portugal. SE: reservation on the acquisition of 50 % or more of Swedish flag vessels, except through an enterprise incorporated in Sweden; establishment of, or acquisition of 50 % or more of shares in firms engaged in commercial fishing activities in Swedish waters, unless an authorisation is granted. Restrictions on the right of fishing and limitations on which fishing-vessels may obtain a licence and become a part of the Swedish fishing fleet are found in the Swedish fisheries legislation. SK: Reservation on the ownership of Slovak flag vessels except through an enterprise incorporated in the Slovak Republic. UK: Reservation on the acquisition of UK flagged vessels, unless the investment is at least 75 % owned by British citizens and/or by companies which are at least 75 % owned by British citizens, in all cases resident and domiciled in the UK. Vessels must be managed, directed and controlled from within the UK | 
C.Mining and quarrying | | 
10.Mining of coal and lignite; extraction of peat11.Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas; excluding services12.Mining of uranium and thorium ores13.Mining of metal ores14.Other mining and quarrying | CZ: Unbound. EL: The right of exploration and exploitation of all minerals, except hydrocarbons, solid fuels, radioactive minerals and geothermal potential is subject to a concession by the Greek State, after approval of the Council of Ministers. ES: Reservation on investment originating in non-Community member countries in strategic minerals. FR: Establishment by a non-resident in extractive industries must be carried out in the form of a French or European subsidiary, whose manager must be resident in France or other country and declare his place of residence to the local prefect authorities. HU: The right of prospecting for, exploration and exploitation of mineral raw materials may be subject to a time-limited concession granted by the Hungarian state. LT: Unbound. MT: Unbound. EC: Reservation on prospection, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons: In accordance with Directive 94/22/EC of 30 May 1994 (OJ L 164, 30.6.1994), whenever it appears that a third country is not granting Community entities as regards access to and exercise of these activities treatment comparable to that which the Community grants entities from that country, the Council could, on a proposal of the Commission, authorise a Member State to refuse authorisation to an entity which is effectively controlled by the third country concerned and/or by nationals of that country (reciprocity) | 
D.Manufacturing | | 
15.Manufacture of food products and beverages | none | 
16.Manufacture of tobacco products | | 
17.Manufacture of textiles | | 
18.Manufacture of wearing apparel; dressing and dyeing of fur | | 
19.Tanning and dressing of leather; manufacture of luggage, handbags, saddlery, harness and footwear | | 
20.Manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork, except furniture; manufacture of articles of straw and plaiting materials | | 
21.Manufacture of paper and paper products | | 
22.Publishing, printing and reproduction of recorded media | | 
23.Manufacture of coke, refined petroleum products and nuclear fuel | | 
24.Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products | | 
25.Manufacture of rubber and plastics products | | 
26.Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products | | 
27.Manufacture of basic metals | | 
28.Manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment | | 
29.Manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c. | | 
30.Manufacture of office, accounting and computing machinery | | 
31.Manufacture of electrical machinery and apparatus n.e.c. | | 
32.Manufacture of radio, television and communication equipment and apparatus | | 
33.Manufacture of medical, precision and optical instruments, watches and clocks | | 
34.Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers | | 
35.Manufacture of other transport equipment | | 
36.Manufacture of furniture; manufacturing n.e.c. | | 
37.Recycling | | 
Other manufacturing | A: Production of non-military arms and ammunitions are subject to EEA-nationality requirement. Production of military arms and ammunitions are subject to an Austrian nationality requirement. Juridical persons and partnerships: Registered office or head office in Austria. The company's professional representative or managing partners empowered to act on its behalf must be EEA nationals. | 
E.Electricity, gas and water supply | | 
40.Electricity, gas steam and hot water supply. | AT: Unbound. CZ: Unbound. FR: Concessions and authorisations in hydroelectricity can be given only to French nationals or to nationals from the Community, as well as to nationals of third countries, with which reciprocity agreements have been concluded with respect to exploitation of hydroelectricity. FI: Reservation on investment in an enterprise engaged in activities involving nuclear energy or nuclear matter. EL: Solid fuels, radioactive minerals and geothermal energy: An exploration licence may not be granted to non-Community natural or legal persons. The right of exploitation is subject to a concession by the Greek State, after approval by the Council of Ministers. HU: Unbound. LV: State monopoly in the sector of electro energy. MT: Unbound. PT: Reservation on investment in an enterprise engaged in the import, transport and supply of natural gas. The Portuguese Government is competent to define the conditions to be fulfilled by enterprises wishing to perform those activities. SK: Conformity with energy policy of the Slovak Republic is required. Reservation on investment in enterprises characterised as natural monopolies. The government can limit import and export of electricity and gas in the following cases: rights and obligations of producers and purchasers of electricity and gas are not similar or beyond to rights and obligations of producers and purchasers in the Slovak Republicthe precautions of individual producers relating to the protection of environment are not similar or beyond to the protection of environment carried out in the Slovak Republicthe import or export of electricity limits the use of electricity from renewable sources or from domestic coal sources. | 
[1] Exceptions from these requirements may be granted, if it can be proved that residency is not necessary 
[2] SI: According to the Law on Commercial Companies, a branch established in the Republic of Slovenia is not considered a juridical person, but as regards their operation, their treatment is equal to a subsidiary. 
[3] CZ: Non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange control is applied consisting of:(a) limitation on acquisition of foreign exchange by resident nationals for personal purposes,(b) foreign exchange authorisation in case of Czech residents for acceptance of financial credits from foreign subjects, direct capital investment abroad, acquisition of real estate abroad and purchases of foreign securities. 
[4] PL: There is non-discriminatory system of foreign exchange controls relating to limitations in foreign exchange turnover and to system of foreign exchange permits (general and individual) among others limitations of capital flows and currency payments. The following foreign exchange transactions require authorisation:transfer of foreign exchange out of the country,transfer of Polish currency into the country,ownership transfer of the right to monetary assets between domestic and foreign persons,granting and drawing of loans and credits by domestic persons in foreign exchange transactions,fixing or executing payments in foreign currencies within Poland for acquired goods, real estate, property rights, services or labour,opening and possessing of a banking account in a bank situated abroad,acquiring and holding foreign securities and acquiring real estate abroad,undertaking other obligations abroad of similar effect. 
[5] SK: Entries being listed for transparency reasons. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX IX 
COMMUNITY'S COVERAGE ON GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
(referred to in Article 137 of the Association Agreement) 
Appendix 1 
ENTITIES AT CENTRAL LEVEL 
ENTITIES WHICH PROCURE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE 
SECTION 2 
Contracting authorities of the State 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
1. Ministerstvo dopravy (Ministry of Transport) 
2. Ministerstvo informatiky (Ministry of Informatics) 
3. Ministerstvo financí (Ministry of Finance) 
4. Ministerstvo kultury (Ministry of Culture) 
5. Ministerstvo obrany (Ministry of Defence) [1] 
6. Ministerstvo pro místní rozvoj (Ministry for Regional Development) 
7. Ministerstvo práce a sociálních věcí (Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs) 
8. Ministerstvo průmyslu a obchodu (Ministry of Industry and Trade) 
9. Ministerstvo spravedlnosti (Ministry of Justice) 
10. Ministerstvo školství, mládeže a tělovýchovy (Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports) 
11. Ministerstvo vnitra (Ministry of the Interior) 
12. Ministerstvo zahraničních věcí (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
13. Ministerstvo zdravotnictví (Ministry of Health) 
14. Ministerstvo zemědělství (Ministry of Agriculture) 
15. Ministerstvo životního prostředí (Ministry of the Environment) 
16. Poslanecká sněmovna PČR (Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic) 
17. Senát PČR (Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic) 
18. Kancelář prezidenta (Office of the President) 
19. Český statistický úřad (Czech Statistical Office) 
20. Český úřad zeměměřičský a katastrální (Czech Office for Surveying, Mapping and Cadastre) 
21. Úřad průmyslového vlastnictví (Industrial Property Office) 
22. Úřad pro ochranu osobních údajů (Office for Personal Data Protection) 
23. Bezpečnostní informační služba (Security Information Service) 
24. Národní bezpečnostní úřad (National Security Authority) 
25. Česká akademie věd (Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic) 
26. Vězeňská služba (Prison Service) 
27. Český báňský úřad (Czech Mining Authority) 
28. Úřad pro ochranu hospodářské soutěže (Office for the Protection of Competition) 
29. Správa státních hmotných rezerv (Administration of the State Material Reserves) 
30. Státní úřad pro jadernou bezpečnost (State Office for Nuclear Safety) 
31. Komise pro cenné papíry (Czech Securities Commission) 
32. Energetický regulační úřad (Energy Regulatory Office) 
33. Úřad vlády České republiky (Office of the Government of the Czech Republic) 
34. Ústavní soud (Constitutional Court) 
35. Nejvyšší soud (Supreme Court) 
36. Nejvyšší správní soud (Supreme Administrative Court) 
37. Nejvyšší státní zastupitelství (Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office) 
38. Nejvyšší kontrolní úřad (Supreme Audit Office) 
39. Kancelář Veřejného ochránce práv (Office of the Public Defender of Rights) 
40. Grantová agentura České republiky (Grant Agency of the Czech Republic) 
41. Český úřad bezpečnosti práce (Czech Authority of Safety Work) 
42. Český telekomunikační úřad (Czech Telecommunication Office) 
ESTONIA 
1. Vabariigi Presidendi Kantselei (Office of the President of the Republic of Estonia) 
2. Eesti Vabariigi Riigikogu (Parliament of the Republic of Estonia) 
3. Eesti Vabariigi Riigikohus (Supreme Court of the Republic of Estonia) 
4. Riigikontroll (The State Audit Office of the Republic of Estonia) 
5. Õiguskantsler (Legal Chancellor) 
6. Riigikantselei (The State Chancellery) 
7. Rahvusarhiiv (The National Archives of Estonia) 
8. Haridus- ja Teadusministeerium (Ministry of Education and Research) 
9. Justiitsministeerium (Ministry of Justice) 
10. Kaitseministeerium (Ministry of Defence) [1] 
11. Keskkonnaministeerium (Ministry of Environment) 
12. Kultuuriministeerium (Ministry of Culture) 
13. Majandus- ja Kommunikatsiooniministeerium (Ministry for Economy and Communication) 
14. Põllumajandusministeerium (Ministry of Agriculture) 
15. Rahandusministeerium (Ministry of Finance) 
16. Siseministeerium (Ministry of Internal Affairs) 
17. Sotsiaalministeerium (Ministry of Social Affairs) 
18. Välisministeerium (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
19. Keeleinspektsioon (The Language Inspectorate) 
20. Riigiprokuratuur (Prosecutor's Office) 
21. Teabeamet (The Information Board) 
22. Maa-amet (Land Board) 
23. Keskkonnainspektsioon (Environmental Inspectorate) 
24. Metsakaitse- ja Metsauuenduskeskus (Centre for Forest Protection and Silviculture) 
25. Muinsuskaitseamet (The Heritage Conservation Inspectorate) 
26. Patendiamet (Patent Office) 
27. Tehnilise Järelevalve Inspektsioon (The Technical Inspectorate) 
28. Energiaturu Inspektsioon (The Energy Market Inspectorate) 
29. Tarbijakaitseamet (The Consumer Protection Board) 
30. Riigihangete Amet (Public Procurement Office) 
31. Eesti Patendiraamatukogu (Estonian Patent Library) 
32. Taimetoodangu Inspektsioon (The Plant Production Inspectorate) 
33. Põllumajanduse Registrite ja Informatsiooni Amet (Agricultural Registers and Information Board) 
34. Veterinaar- ja Toiduamet (The Veterinary and Food Board) 
35. Konkurentsiamet (The Competition Board) 
36. Maksu — ja Tolliamet (Tax and Customs Board) 
37. Statistikaamet (Statistical Office) 
38. Kaitsepolitseiamet (The Security Police Board) 
39. Proovikoda (Assay Office) 
40. Kodakondsus- ja Migratsiooniamet (Citizenship and Migration Board) 
41. Piirivalveamet (The Border Guard Administration) 
42. Politseiamet (The Police Board) 
43. Kohtuekspertiisi ja Kriminalistika Keskus (Centre of Forensic and Criminalistic Science) 
44. Keskkriminaalpolitsei (Central Criminal Police) 
45. Päästeamet (The Rescue Board) 
40. Andmekaitse Inspektsioon (The Data Protection Inspectorate) 
47. Ravimiamet (Agency of Medicines) 
48. Sotsiaalkindlustusamet (Social Insurance Board) 
49. Tööturuamet (Labour Market Board) 
50. Tervishoiuamet (Health Care Board) 
51. Tervisekaitseinspektsioon (Health Protection Inspectorate) 
52. Tööinspektsioon (Labour Inspectorate) 
53. Lennuamet (Civil Aviation Administration) 
54. Maanteeamet (Road Administration) 
55. Sideamet (Communications Board) 
56. Veeteede Amet (Maritime Administration) 
57. Raudteeamet (Estonian Railway Administration) 
CYPRUS 
1. (a) Προεδρία και Προεδρικό Μέγαρο (Presidency and Presidential Palace) 
(b) Γραφείο Συντονιστή Εναρμόνισης (Office of the Coordinator for Harmonisation) 
2. Υπουργικό Συμβούλιο (Council of Ministers) 
3. Βουλή των Αντιπροσώπων (House of Representatives) 
4. Δικαστική Υπηρεσία (Judicial Service) 
5. Νομική Υπηρεσία της Δημοκρατίας (Law Office of the Republic) 
6. Ελεγκτική Υπηρεσία της Δημοκρατίας (Audit Office of the Republic) 
7. Επιτροπή Δημόσιας Υπηρεσίας (Public Service Commission) 
8. Επιτροπή Εκπαιδευτικής Υπηρεσίας (Educational Service Commission) 
9. Γραφείο Επιτρόπου Διοικήσεως (Office of the Commissioner for Administration (Ombudsman)) 
10. Επιτροπή Προστασίας Ανταγωνισμού (Commission for the Protection of Competition) 
11. Υπηρεσία Εσωτερικού Ελέγχου (Internal Audit Service) 
12. Γραφείο Προγραμματισμού (Planning Bureau) 
13. Γενικό Λογιστήριο της Δημοκρατίας (Treasury of the Republic) 
14. Γραφείο Επιτρόπου Προστασίας Δεδομένων Προσωπικού Χαρακτήρα (Office of the Personal Character Data Protection Commissioner) 
15. Γραφείο Επιτρόπου Νομοθεσίας (Law Commissioner Office) 
16. Γραφείο Εφόρου Δημοσίων Ενισχύσεων (Office of the Commissioner for the Public Aid) 
17. Υπουργείο Άμυνας (Ministry of Defence) [1] 
18. (a) Υπουργείο Γεωργίας, Φυσικών Πόρων και Περιβάλλοντος (Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment) 
(b) Τμήμα Γεωργίας (Department of Agriculture) 
(c) Κτηνιατρικές Υπηρεσίες (Veterinary Services) 
(d) Τμήμα Δασών (Forest Department) 
(e) Τμήμα Αναπτύξεως Υδάτων (Water Development Department) 
(f) Τμήμα Γεωλογικής Επισκόπησης (Geological Survey Department) 
(g) Μετεωρολογική Υπηρεσία (Meteorological Service) 
(h) Τμήμα Αναδασμού (Land Consolidation Department) 
(i) Υπηρεσία Μεταλλείων (Mines Service) 
(j) Ινστιτούτο Γεωργικών Ερευνών (Agricultural Research Institute) 
(k) Τμήμα Αλιείας και Θαλάσσιων Ερευνών (Department of Fisheries and Marine Research) 
19. (a) Υπουργείο Δικαιοσύνης και Δημοσίας Τάξεως (Ministry of Justice and Public Order) 
(b) Αστυνομία (Police) 
(c) Πυροσβεστική Υπηρεσία Κύπρου (Cyprus Fire Service) 
(d) Τμήμα Φυλακών (Prison Department) 
(e) Κεντρική Υπηρεσία Πληροφοριών (Central Information Service) 
20. (a) Υπουργείο Εμπορίου, Βιομηχανίας και Τουρισμού (Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism) 
(b) Υπηρεσία Εποπτείας και Ανάπτυξης Συνεργατικών Εταιρειών (Cooperative Societies' Supervision and Development Authority) 
(c) Τμήμα Εφόρου Εταιρειών και Επίσημου Παραλήπτη (Department of Registrar of Companies and Official Receiver) 
21. (a) Υπουργείο Εργασίας και Κοινωνικών Ασφαλίσεων (Ministry of Labour and Social Insurance) 
(b) Τμήμα Εργασίας (Department of Labour) 
(c) Τμήμα Κοινωνικών Ασφαλίσεων (Department of Social Insurance) 
(d) Τμήμα Υπηρεσιών Κοινωνικής Ευημερίας (Department of Social Welfare Services) 
(e) Κέντρο Παραγωγικότητας Κύπρου (Productivity Centre Cyprus) 
(f) Ανώτερο Ξενοδοχειακό Ινστιτούτο Κύπρου (Higher Hotel Institute Cyprus) 
(g) Ανώτερο Τεχνολογικό Ινστιτούτο (Higher Τechnical Institute)Τμήμα Επιθεώρησης Εργασίας (Department of Labour Inspection) 
(h) Υπηρεσία Βιομηχανικών Σχέσεων (Industrial Relations Service) 
22. (a) Υπουργείο Εσωτερικών (Ministry of the Interior) 
(b) Επαρχιακές Διοικήσεις (District Administrations) 
(c) Τμήμα Πολεοδομίας και Οικήσεως (Town Planning and Housing Department) 
(d) Τμήμα Αρχείου Πληθυσμού και Μεταναστεύσεως (Civil Registry and Migration Department) 
(e) Τμήμα Κτηματολογίου και Χωρομετρίας (Department of Lands and Surveys) 
(f) Γραφείο Τύπου και Πληροφοριών (Press and Information Office) 
(g) Πολιτική Άμυνα (Civil Defence) 
(h) Κυπριακό Πρακτορείο Ειδήσεων (Cyprus News Agency) 
(i) Ταμείο Θήρας (Game Fund) 
(j) Υπηρεσία Μέριμνας και Αποκαταστάσεων Εκτοπισθέντων (Service for the care and rehabilitation of displaced persons) 
23. Υπουργείο Εξωτερικών (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
24. (a) Υπουργείο Οικονομικών (Ministry of Finance) 
(b) Τελωνεία (Customs and Excise) 
(c) Τμήμα Εσωτερικών Προσόδων (Department of Inland Revenue) 
(d) Στατιστική Υπηρεσία (Statistical Service) 
(e) Τμήμα Κρατικών Αγορών και Προμηθειών (Department of Government Purchasing and Supply) 
(f) Τμήμα Δημόσιας Διοίκησης και Προσωπικού (Public Administration and Personnel Department) 
(g) Κυβερνητικό Τυπογραφείο (Government Printing Office) 
(h) Τμήμα Υπηρεσιών Πληροφορικής (Department of Information Technology Services) 
25. Υπουργείο Παιδείας και Πολιτισμού (Ministry of Εducation and Culture) 
26. (a) Υπουργείο Συγκοινωνιών και Έργων (Ministry of Communications and Works) 
(b) Τμήμα Δημοσίων Έργων (Department of Public Works) 
(c) Τμήμα Αρχαιοτήτων (Department of Antiquities) 
(d) Τμήμα Πολιτικής Αεροπορίας (Department of Civil Aviation) 
(e) Τμήμα Εμπορικής Ναυτιλίας (Department of Merchant Shipping) 
(f) Τμήμα Ταχυδρομικών Υπηρεσιών (Postal Services Department) 
(g) Τμήμα Οδικών Μεταφορών (Department of Road Transport) 
(h) Τμήμα Ηλεκτρομηχανολογικών Υπηρεσιών (Department of Electrical and Mechanical Services) 
(i) Τμήμα Ηλεκτρονικών Επικοινωνιών (Department of Electronic Telecommunications) 
27. (a) Υπουργείο Υγείας (Ministry of Health) 
(b) Φαρμακευτικές Υπηρεσίες (Pharmaceutical Services) 
(c) Γενικό Χημείο (General Laboratory) 
(d) Ιατρικές Υπηρεσίες και Υπηρεσίες Δημόσιας Υγείας (Medical and Public Health Services) 
(e) Οδοντιατρικές Υπηρεσίες (Dental Services) 
(f) Υπηρεσίες Ψυχικής Υγείας (Mental Health Services) 
LATVIA 
1. Valsts prezidenta kanceleja (Chancellery of the State President) 
2. Saeimas kanceleja (Chancellery of the Parliament) 
3. Aizsardzības ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Defence and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) [1] 
4. Ārlietu ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Foreign Affairs and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
5. Ekonomikas ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Economics and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
6. Finanšu ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Finance and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
7. Iekšlietu ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of the Interior and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
8. Izglītības un zinātnes ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Education and Science and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
9. Kultūras ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Culture and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
10. Labklājības ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Welfare and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
11. Reģionālās attīstības un pašvaldību lietu ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Regional Development and local governments and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
12. Satiksmes ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Transport and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
13. Tieslietu ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Justice and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
14. Veselības ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Health and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
15. Vides ministrija un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Environment and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
16. Zemkopības ministrija un tās pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Ministry of Agriculture and institutions under its supervision) 
17. Īpašu uzdevumu ministrs bērnu un ģimenes lietās un tā pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Minister for Special Assignments for Children and Family Affairs and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
18. Īpašu uzdevumu ministrs sabiedrības integrācijas lietās un tā pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Minister for Special Assignments for Integration Affairs and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
19. Augstākās izglītības padome (Council of Higher Education) 
20. Eiropas lietu birojs (European Affairs Bureau) 
21. Valsts kanceleja un tās pakļautībā un pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (State Chancellery and institutions subordinate to it and under its supervision) 
22. Centrālā vēlēšanu komisija (Central Election Commission) 
23. Finansu un kapitāla tirgus komisija (Financial and Capital Market Commission) 
24. Latvijas Banka (Bank of Latvia) 
25. Nacionālie bruņotie spēki (National Armed Forces) 
26. Nacionālā radio un televīzijas padome (National Broadcasting Council) 
27. Sabiedrisko pakalpojumu regulēšanas komisija (Public Utilities Commission) 
28. Satversmes aizsardzības birojs (Constitution Defence Bureau) 
29. Valsts cilvēktiesību birojs (State Human Rights Bureau) 
30. Valsts kontrole (State Audit Office) 
31. Satversmes tiesa (Constitutional Court) 
32. Augstākā tiesa (Supreme Court) 
33. Prokuratūra un tās pārraudzībā esošās iestādes (Prosecutor's Office and institutions under its supervision) 
LITHUANIA 
1. Prezidento kanceliarija (Chancellery of the Office of the President) 
2. Seimo kanceliarija (Chancellery of the Seimas (Parliament)) 
3. Konstitucinis Teismas (The Constitutional Court) 
4. Vyriausybės kanceliarija (Chancellery of the Government) 
5. Aplinkos ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Environment and institutions under the Ministry) 
6. Finansų ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Finance and institutions under the Ministry) 
7. Krašto apsaugos ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of National Defence and institutions under the Ministry) [1] 
8. Kultūros ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Culture and institutions under the Ministry) 
9. Socialinės apsaugos ir darbo ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Social Security and Labour and institutions under the Ministry) 
10. Susisiekimo ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Transport and Communications and institutions under the Ministry) 
11. Sveikatos apsaugos ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Health and institutions under the Ministry) 
12. Švietimo ir mokslo ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Education and Science and institutions under the Ministry) 
13. Teisingumo ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Justice and institutions under the Ministry) 
14. Ūkio ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Economy and institutions under the Ministry) 
15. Užsienio reikalų ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Foreign Affairs and institutions under the Ministry) 
16. Vidaus reikalų ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Internal Affairs and institutions under the Ministry) 
17. Žemės ūkio ministerija ir įstaigos prie ministerijos (Ministry of Agriculture and institutions under the Ministry) 
18. Nacionalinė teismų administracija (National Courts Administration) 
19. Lietuvos kariuomenė ir jos padaliniai (Lithuanian Armed Forces and structure thereof) [1] 
20. Generalinė prokuratūra (The General Public Prosecutor's Office) 
21. Valstybės kontrolė (State Control) 
22. Lietuvos bankas (Bank of Lithuania) 
23. Specialiųjų tyrimų tarnyba (Special Investigation Service) 
24. Konkurencijos taryba (Competition Council) 
25. Lietuvos gyventojų genocido ir rezistencijos tyrimo centras (Genocide and Resistance Research Centre of Lithuania) 
26. Nacionalinė sveikatos taryba (National Health Council) 
27. Moterų ir vyrų lygių galimybių kontrolieriaus tarnyba (Office of the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman) 
28. Vaiko teisių apsaugos kontrolieriaus įstaiga (Children's Rights Ombudsmen Institution) 
29. Seimo kontrolierių įstaiga (Ombudsman Office of the Seimas) 
30. Valstybinė lietuvių kalbos komisija (State Commission of the Lithuanian Language) 
31. Valstybinė paminklosaugos komisija (State Commission for Cultural Heritage Protection) 
32. Vertybinių popierių komisija (Lithuanian Security Commission) 
33. Vyriausioji rinkimų komisija (Central Electoral Committee) 
34. Vyriausioji tarnybinės etikos komisija (Chief Commission of Official Ethics) 
35. Etninės kultūros globos taryba (Council for the Protection of Ethnic Culture) 
36. Žurnalistų etikos inspektoriaus tarnyba (Office of the Inspector of Journalists' Ethics) 
37. Valstybės saugumo departamentas (State Security Department) 
38. Valstybinė kainų ir energetikos kontrolės komisija (National Control Commission for Prices and Energy) 
39. Vyriausioji administracinių ginčų komisija (Chief Administrative Disputes Commission) 
40. Mokestinių ginčų komisija (Commission on Tax Disputes) 
41. Valstybinė lošimų priežiūros komisija (State Gambling Supervisory Commission) 
42. Lietuvos archyvų departamentas (Lithuanian Archives Department) 
43. Europos teisės departamentas (European Law Department) 
44. Lietuvos mokslo taryba (The Lithuanian Council of Science) 
45. Ginklų fondas (Weaponry Fund) 
46. Lietuvos valstybinis mokslo ir studijų fondas (Lithuanian State Science and Studies Foundation) 
47. Informacinės visuomenės plėtros komitetas (Information Society Development Committee) 
48. Kūno kultūros ir sporto departamentas (Lithuanian State Department of Physical Culture and Sport) 
49. Ryšių reguliavimo tarnyba (Lithuanian Telecommunications Regulator) 
50. Statistikos departamentas (Department of Statistics) 
51. Tautinių mažumų ir išeivijos departamentas (Department of National Minorities and Lithuanians Living Abroad) 
52. Valstybinė atominės energetikos saugos inspekcija (State Nuclear Safety Inspectorate) 
53. Valstybinė duomenų apsaugos inspekcija (State Data Protection Inspectorate) 
54. Valstybinė maisto ir veterinarijos tarnyba (State Food and Veterinary Service) 
55. Valstybinė ligonių kasa (State Patients' Fund) 
56. Valstybinė tabako ir alkoholio kontrolės tarnyba (State Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service) 
57. Viešųjų pirkimų tarnyba (Public Procurement Office) 
58. Lietuvos Aukščiausiasis Teismas (The Supreme Court of Lithuania) 
59. Lietuvos apeliacinis teismas (The Court of Appeal of Lithuania) 
60. Lietuvos vyriausiasis administracinis teismas (The Supreme Administrative Court of Lithuania) 
61. Apygardų teismai (County Courts of Lithuania) 
62. Apygardų administraciniai teismai (County Administrative Courts of Lithuania) 
63. Apylinkių teismai (District Courts of Lithuania). 
HUNGARY 
1. Belügyminisztérium (Ministry of the Interior) 
2. Egészségügyi, Szociális és Családügyi Minisztérium (Ministry of Health, Social and Family Affairs) 
3. Foglalkoztatáspolitikai és Munkaügyi Minisztérium (Ministry of Employment Policy and Labour Affairs) 
4. Földművelésügyi és Vidékfejlesztési Minisztérium (Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development) 
5. Gazdasági és Közlekedési Minisztérium (Ministry of Economy and Transport) 
6. Gyermek-, Ifjúsági és Sportminisztérium (Ministry of Children, Youth and Sports) 
7. Honvédelmi Minisztérium (Ministry of Defence) [1] 
8. Igazságügyi Minisztérium (Ministry of Justice) 
9. Informatikai és Hírközlési Minisztérium (Ministry of Informatics and Communications) 
10. Környezetvédelmi és Vízügyi Minisztérium (Ministry of Environment and Water Management) 
11. Külügyminisztérium (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
12. Miniszterelnöki Hivatal (Prime Minister's Office) 
13. Nemzeti Kulturális Örökség Minisztériuma (Ministry of Cultural Heritage) 
14. Oktatási Minisztérium (Ministry of Education) 
15. Pénzügyminisztérium (Ministry of Finance) 
16. Központi Szolgáltatási Főigazgatóság (Central Services Directorate) 
MALTA 
1. Uffiċċju tal-President (Office of the President) 
2. Uffiċċju ta' l-Iskrivan tal-Kamra tad-Deputati (Office of the Clerk to the House of Representatives) 
3. Uffiċċju tal-Prim Ministru (Office of the Prime Minister) [2] 
4. Ministeru għall-Politika Soċjali (Ministry for Social Policy) 
5. Ministeru ta' l-Edukazzjoni (Ministry of Education) 
6. Ministeru tal-Finanzi u l-Affarijiet Ekonomiċi (Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs) 
7. Ministeru tar-Riżorsi u l-Infrastruttura (Ministry for Resources and Infrastructure) 
8. Ministeru tat-Turiżmu (Ministry for Tourism) 
9. Ministeru għat-Trasport u Komunikazzjoni (Ministry for Transport and Communications) 
10. Ministeru tal-Ġustizzja u l-Intern (Ministry for Justice and Home Affairs) 
11. Ministeru għall-Affarijiet Rurali u l-Ambjent (Ministry for Rural Affairs and the Environment) 
12. Ministeru għal Għawdex (Ministry for Gozo) 
13. Ministeru tas-Saħħa (Ministry of Health) 
14. Ministeru ta' l-Affarijiet Barranin (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
15. Ministeru għat-Teknoloġija ta' l-Informazzjoni u Investiment (Ministry for Information Technology and Investment) 
16. Ministeru għaż-Żgħażagħ u l-Kultura (Ministry for Youth and the Arts) 
POLAND 
1. Kancelaria Prezydenta RP (Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland) 
2. Kancelaria Sejmu RP (Chancellery of the Sejm) 
3. Kancelaria Senatu RP (Chancellery of the Senate) 
4. Sąd Najwyższy (Supreme Court) 
5. Naczelny Sąd Administracyjny (Supreme Administrative Court) 
6. Trybunał Konstytucyjny (Constitutional Court) 
7. Najwyższa Izba Kontroli (Supreme Chamber of Control) 
8. Biuro Rzecznika Praw Obywatelskich (Office of the Ombudsman) 
9. Krajowa Rada Radiofonii i Telewizji (National Broadcasting Council) 
10. Generalny Inspektor Ochrony Danych Osobowych (Inspector General for the Protection of Personal Data) 
11. Państwowa Komisja Wyborcza (State Election Commission) 
12. Krajowe Biuro Wyborcze (National Election Office) 
13. Państwowa Inspekcja Pracy (National Labour Inspectorate) 
14. Biuro Rzecznika Praw Dziecka (Office of the Children's Rigths Ombudsman) 
15. Kancelaria Prezesa Rady Ministrów (Prime Minister's Chancellery) 
16. Ministerstwo Finansów (Ministry of Finance) 
17. Ministerstwo Gospodarki Pracy i Polityki Społecznej (Ministry of Economy, Labour and Social Policy) 
18. Ministerstwo Kultury (Ministry of Culture) 
19. Ministerstwo Nauki i Informatyzacji (Ministry of Science and Informatisation) 
20. Ministerstwo Obrony Narodowej (Ministry of National Defence) [1] 
21. Ministerstwo Rolnictwa i Rozwoju Wsi (Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development) 
22. Ministerstwo Skarbu Państwa (Ministry of the State Treasury) 
23. Ministerstwo Sprawiedliwości (Ministry of Justice) 
24. Ministerstwo Infrastruktury (Ministry of Infrastructure) 
25. Ministerstwo Środowiska (Ministry of Environment) 
26. Ministerstwo Spraw Wewnętrznych i Administracji (Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration) 
27. Ministerstwo Spraw Zagranicznych (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
28. Ministerstwo Zdrowia (Ministry of Health) 
29. Ministerstwo Edukacji Narodowej i Sportu (Ministry of National Education and Sport) 
30. Urząd Komitetu Integracji Europejskiej (Office of the Committee for European Integration) 
31. Rządowe Centrum Studiów Strategicznych (Government Centre for Strategic Studies) 
32. Agencja Restrukturyzacji i Modernizacji Rolnictwa (Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture) 
33. Agencja Rynku Rolnego (Agriculture Market Agency) 
34. Agencja Własności Rolnej Skarbu Państwa (State Treasury Agricultural Property Agency) 
35. Narodowy Fundusz Zdrowia (National Health Fund) 
36. Polska Akademia Nauk (Polish Academy of Science) 
37. Polskie Centrum Akredytacji (Polish Acreditation Centre) 
38. Polski Komitet Normalizacyjny (Polish Committee for Standardisation) 
39. Rządowe Centrum Legislacji (Government Legislation Centre) 
40. Zakład Ubezpieczeń Społecznych (Social Insurance Office) 
41. Komisja Nadzoru Ubezpieczeń i Funduszy Emerytalnych (Insurance and Pension Funds Supervisiory Commission) 
42. Komisja Papierów Wartościowych i Giełd (Polish Securities and Exchange Commission) 
43. Główny Urząd Miar (Main Office of Measures) 
44. Urząd Patentowy Rzeczpospolitej Polskiej (Patent Office of the Republic of Poland) 
45. Urząd Regulacji Energetyki (The Energy Regulatory Authority of Poland) 
46. Urząd do Spraw Kombatantów i Osób Represjonowanych (Office for Military Veterans and Victims of Repression) 
47. Generalna Dyrekcja Dróg Krajowych i Autostrad (The General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways) 
48. Urząd Transportu Kolejowego (Office for Railroad Transport) 
49. Urząd Głównego Inspektora Transportu Drogowego (Office of the Main Inspector of Road Transport) 
50. Główny Urząd Geodezji i Kartografii (The Main Office of Geodesy and Cartography) 
51. Główny Urząd Nadzoru Budowlanego (The Main Office for Construction Supervision) 
52. Urząd Lotnictwa Cywilnego (The Main Office for Civil Aviation) 
53. Urząd Regulacji Telekomunikacji i Poczty (Office for Telecommunication Regulation and Post) 
54. Naczelna Dyrekcja Archiwów Państwowych (The Main Directorate for National Archives) 
55. Kasa Rolniczego Ubezpieczenia Społecznego (Farmers Social Security Fund) 
56. Główny Inspektorat Inspekcji Ochrony Roślin i Nasiennictwa (The Main Inspectorate for the Inspection of Plant and Seeds Protection) 
57. Główny Inspektorat Jakości Handlowej Artykułów Rolno-Spożywczych (The Main Inspectorate of Commercial Quality of Agri-Food Products) 
58. Główny Inspektorat Weterynarii (The Main Veterinary Inspectorate) 
59. Komenda Główna Państwowej Straży Pożarnej (The Chief Command of the National Fire Guard) 
60. Komenda Główna Policji (The Chief Police Command) 
61. Komenda Główna Straży Granicznej (The Chief Boarder Guards Command) 
62. Urząd do Spraw Repatriacji i Cudzoziemców (Office for Repatriation and Foreigners) 
63. Urząd Zamówień Publicznych (Public Procurement Office) 
64. Wyższy Urząd Górniczy (Main Mining Office) 
65. Główny Inspektorat Ochrony Środowiska (The Main Inspectorate for Environment Protection) 
66. Państwowa Agencja Atomistyki (State Atomic Agency) 
67. Główny Inspektorat Farmaceutyczny (Main Pharmaceutical Inspectorate) 
68. Główny Inspektorat Sanitarny (Main Sanitary Inspectorate) 
69. Agencja Bezpieczeństwa Wewnętrznego (Internal Security Agency) 
70. Agencja Wywiadu (Foreign Intelligence Agency) 
71. Główny Urząd Statystyczny (Main Statistical Office) 
72. Urząd Ochrony Konkurencji i Konsumentów (Office for Competition and Consumer Protection) 
73. Urząd Służby Cywilnej (Civil Service Office) 
74. Instytut Pamięci Narodowej — Komisja Ścigania Zbrodni Przeciwko Narodowi Polskiemu (National Remembrance Institute — Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes Against the Polish Nation) 
75. Państwowa Agencja Inwestycji Zagranicznych (State Foreign Investment Agency) 
76. Polska Konfederacja Sportu (Polish Confederation of Sport) 
77. Narodowy Bank Polski (National Bank of Poland) 
78. Narodowy Fundusz Ochrony Środowiska i Gospodarki Wodnej (The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management) 
79. Państwowy Fundusz Rehabilitacji Osób Niepełnosprawnych (State Fund for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled) 
80. Polskie Centrum Badań i Certyfikacji (Polish Centre for Testing and Certification) 
81. Agencja Mienia Wojskowego (Agency for Military Property) [1] 
SLOVENIA 
1. Predsednik Republike Slovenije (President of the Republic of Slovenia) 
2. Državni zbor (The National Assembly) 
3. Državni svet (The National Council) 
4. Varuh človekovih pravic (The Ombudsman) 
5. Ustavno sodišče (The Constitutional Court) 
6. Računsko sodišče (The Court of Audits) 
7. Državna revizijska komisja (The National Review Commission) 
8. Slovenska akademija znanosti in umetnosti (The Slovenian Academy of Science and Art) 
9. Vladne službe (The Government Services) 
10. Ministrstvo za finance (Ministry of Finance) 
11. Ministrstvo za notranje zadeve (Ministry of Internal Affairs) 
12. Ministrstvo za zunanje zadeve (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
13. Ministrstvo za obrambo (Ministry of Defence) [1] 
14. Ministrstvo za pravosodje (Ministry of Justice) 
15. Ministrstvo za gospodarstvo (Ministry of the Economy) 
16. Ministrstvo za kmetijstvo, gozdarstvo in prehrano (Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food) 
17. Ministrstvo za promet (Ministry of Transport) 
18. Ministrstvo za okolje, prostor in energijo (Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Energy) 
19. Ministrstvo za delo, družino in socialne zadeve (Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs) 
20. Ministrstvo za zdravje (Ministry of Health) 
21. Ministrstvo za informacijsko družbo (Ministry of Information Society) 
22. Ministrstvo za šolstvo, znanost in šport (Ministry of Education, Science and Sport) 
23. Ministrstvo za kulturo (Ministry of Culture) 
24. Vrhovno sodišče Republike Slovenije (The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia) 
25. Višja sodišča (Higher Courts) 
26. Okrožna sodišča (District Courts) 
27. Okrajna sodišča (County Courts) 
28. Vrhovno tožilstvo Republike Slovenije (The Supreme Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia) 
29. Okrožna državna tožilstva (Districts' State Prosecutors) 
30. Družbeni pravobranilec Republike Slovenije (Social Attorney of the Republic of Slovenia) 
31. Državno pravobranilstvo Republike Slovenije (National Attorney of the Republic of Slovenia) 
32. Upravno sodišče Republike Slovenije (Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia) 
33. Senat za prekrške Republike Slovenije (Senat of Minor Offences of the Republic of Slovenia) 
34. Višje delovno in socialno sodišče v Ljubljani (Higher Labour and Social Court) 
35. Delovna sodišča (Labour Courts) 
36. Sodniki za prekrške (Judges of Minor Offences) 
37. Upravne enote (Local Administration Units) 
SLOVAKIA 
1. Kancelária Prezidenta Slovenskej republiky (The Office of the President of the Slovak Republic) 
2. Národná rada Slovenskej republiky (National Council of the Slovak Republic) 
3. Úrad vlády Slovenskej republiky (The Office of the Government of the Slovak Republic) 
4. Ministerstvo zahraničných vecí Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
5. Ministerstvo hospodárstva Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Economy of the Slovak Republic) 
6. Ministerstvo obrany Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic) [1] 
7. Ministerstvo vnútra Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of the Interior of the Slovak Republic) 
8. Ministerstvo financií Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Finance of the Slovak Republic) 
9. Ministerstvo kultúry Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Culture of the Slovak Republic) 
10. Ministerstvo zdravotníctva Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Health of the Slovak Republic) 
11. Ministerstvo práce, sociálnych vecí a rodiny Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family of the Slovak Republic) 
12. Ministerstvo školstva Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Education of the Slovak Republic) 
13. Ministerstvo spravodlivosti Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Justice of the Slovak Republic) 
14. Ministerstvo životného prostredia Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Environment of the Slovak Republic) 
15. Ministerstvo pôdohospodárstva Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Agriculture of the Slovak Republic) 
16. Ministerstvo dopravy, pôšt a telekomunikácií Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Transport, Posts and Telecommunication of the Slovak Republic) 
17. Ministerstvo výstavby a regionálneho rozvoja Slovenskej republiky (Ministry of Construction and Regional Development of the Slovak Republic) 
18. Ústavný súd Slovenskej republiky (Constitutional Court of the Slovak Republic) 
19 Najvyšší súd Slovenskej republiky (Supreme Court of the Slovak Republic) 
20. Generálna prokuratúra Slovenskej republiky (Public Prosecution of the Slovak Republic) 
21. Najvyšší kontrolný úrad Slovenskej republiky (Supreme Audit Office of the Slovak Republic) 
22. Protimonopolný úrad Slovenskej republiky (Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic) 
23. Úrad pre verejné obstarávanie (Office for Public Procurement) 
24. Štatistický úrad Slovenskej republiky (Statistical Office of the Slovak Republic) 
25. Úrad geodézie, kartografie a katastra Slovenskej republiky (Office of the Land Register of the Slovak Republic) 
26. Úrad pre normalizáciu, metrológiu a skúšobníctvo Slovenskej republiky (Office of Standards, Metrology and Testing of the Slovak Republic) 
27. Telekomunikačný úrad Slovenskej republiky (Telecommunications Office of the Slovak Republic) 
28. Úrad priemyselného vlastníctva Slovenskej republiky (Industrial Property Office of the Slovak Republic) 
29. Úrad pre finančný trh (Office for the Finance Market) 
30. Národný bezpečnostný úrad (National Security Office) 
31. Poštový úrad (Post Office) 
32. Úrad na ochranu osobných údajov (Office for Personal Data Protection) 
33. Kancelária verejného ochrancu práv (Ombudsman's Office) 
Appendix 2 
ENTITIES AT SUBCENTRAL LEVEL AND BODIES GOVERNED BY PUBLIC LAW 
ENTITIES WHICH PROCURE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE 
LISTS OF BODIES AND CATEGORIES OF BODIES GOVERNED BY PUBLIC LAW 
XVI. CZECH REPUBLIC: 
- Fond národního majetku (National Property Fund) 
- Pozemkový fond (Land Fund) 
- Other State funds 
- Česká národní banka (Czech National Bank) 
- Česká televize (Czech Television) 
- Český rozhlas (Czech Radio) 
- Rada pro rozhlasové a televizní vysílání (Council for Radio and Television Broadcasting) 
- Česká konsolidační agentura (Czech Consolidation Agency) 
- Health insurance agencies 
- Universities 
- Other legal entities established by a special Act which for their operation and in compliance with budget regulations use money from the State budget, State funds, contributions of international institutions, district authority budget, or budgets of self-governing territorial divisions. 
XVII. ESTONIA: 
Bodies: 
- Eesti Kunstiakadeemia (Estonian Academy of Arts) 
- Eesti Liikluskindlustuse Fond (Estonian Traffic Insurance Foundation) 
- Eesti Muusikaakadeemia (Estonian Academy of Music) 
- Eesti Põllumajandusülikool (Estonian Agricultural University) 
- Eesti Raadio (Estonian Radio) 
- Eesti Teaduste Akadeemia (Estonian Academy of Sciences) 
- Eesti Televisioon (Estonian Television) 
- Hoiuste Tagamise Fond (Deposit Guarantee Fund) 
- Hüvitusfond (Compensation Fund) 
- Kaitseliidu Peastaap (Defence League Headquarters) 
- Keemilise ja Bioloogilise Füüsika Instituut (National Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics) 
- Keskhaigekassa (Central Health Insurance Fund) 
- Kultuurkapital (Cultural Endowment of Estonia) 
- Notarite Koda (The Chamber of Notaries) 
- Rahvusooper Estonia (Estonian National Opera) 
- Rahvusraamatukogu (National Library of Estonia) 
- Tallinna Pedagoogikaülikool (Tallinn Pedagogical University) 
- Tallinna Tehnikaülikool (Tallinn Technical University) 
- Tartu Ülikool (University of Tartu) 
Categories: 
- Other legal persons governed by public law whose public works contracts are subject to State control 
XVIII. CYPRUS: 
- Αρχή Ανάπτυξης Ανθρώπινου Δυναμικού Κύπρου (Human Resource Development Authority) 
- Αρχή Κρατικών Εκθέσεων (Cyprus State Fair Authority) 
- Επιτροπή Σιτηρών Κύπρου (Cyprus Grain Commission) 
- Επιστημονικό Τεχνικό Επιμελητήριο Κύπρου (Scientific and Technical Chamber of Cyprus) 
- Θεατρικός Οργανισμός Κύπρου (National Theatre of Cyprus) 
- Κυπριακός Οργανισμός Αθλητισμού (Cyprus Sports Organisation) 
- Κυπριακός Οργανισμός Τουρισμού (Cyprus Tourism Organisation) 
- Κυπριακός Οργανισμός Αναπτύξεως Γης (Cyprus Land Development Corporation) 
- Οργανισμός Γεωργικής Ασφαλίσεως (Agricultural Insurance Organisation) 
- Οργανισμός Κυπριακής Γαλακτοκομικής Βιομηχανίας (Cyprus Milk Industry Organisation) 
- Οργανισμός Νεολαίας Κύπρου (Youth Board of Cyprus) 
- Οργανισμός Χρηματοδοτήσεως Στέγης (Housing Finance Corporation) 
- Συμβούλια Αποχετεύσεων (Sewerage Boards) 
- Συμβούλια Σφαγείων (Slaughterhouse Boards) 
- Σχολικές Εφορίες (School Boards) 
- Χρηματιστήριο Αξιών Κύπρου (Cyprus Stock Exchange) 
- Επιτροπή Κεφαλαιαγοράς Κύπρου (Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission) 
- Πανεπιστήμιο Κύπρου (University of Cyprus) 
- Κεντρικός Φορέας Ισότιμης Κατανομής Βαρών (Central Agency for Equal Distribution of Burdens) 
- Αρχή Ραδιοτηλεόρασης Κύπρου (Cyprus Radio-Television Authority) 
XIX. LATVIA: 
Categories: 
- Bezpeļņas organizācijas, kuras nodibinājusi valsts vai pašvaldība un kuras tiek finansētas no valsts vai pašvaldības budžeta (Non-profit-making organisations established by the State or a local government and which the State budget or a local government budget finances) 
- Specializētie bērnu sociālās aprūpes centri (Specialised social care centres for children) 
- Specializētie valsts sociālās aprūpes pansionāti (Specialised State social care homes for old people) 
- Specializētie valsts sociālās aprūpes un rehabilitācijas centri (Specialised State social care and rehabilitation centres) 
- Valsts bibliotēkas (State libraries) 
- Valsts muzeji (State museums) 
- Valsts teātri (State theatres) 
- Valsts un pašvaldību aģentūras (State and local government agencies) 
- Valsts un pašvaldību pirmsskolas izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government pre-school education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) 
- Valsts un pašvaldību interešu izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government institutions of hobby/interest education registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) 
- Valsts un pašvaldību profesionālās ievirzes izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government vocational education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) 
- Valsts un pašvaldību vispārējās izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government general education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) 
- Valsts un pašvaldību pamata un vidējās profesionālās izglītības iestādes un koledžas, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government basic and secondary vocational education institutions and colleges (first level higher professional education institutions) registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) 
- Valsts un pašvaldību augstākās izglītības iestādes, kuras reģistrētas Izglītības un zinātnes ministrijas izglītības iestāžu reģistrā (State and local government higher education institutions registered in the Register of Education Institutions at the Ministry of Education and Science) 
- Valsts zinātniskās institūcijas (State scientific reasearch entities) 
- Valsts veselības aprūpes iestādes (State health care establishments) 
- Citi publisko tiesību subjekti, kuru darbība nav saistīta ar komercdarbību (Other bodies governed by public law not having a commercial character) 
XX. LITHUANIA: 
All bodies not having an industrial or commercial character whose procurement is subject to supervision by the Public Procurement Office under the Government of the Republic of Lithuania 
XXI. HUNGARY: 
Bodies: 
- a megyei, illetőleg a regionális fejlesztési tanács (County and Regional Development Council), az elkülönített állami pénzalap kezelője (Managing Bodies of the Separate State Fund), a társadalombiztosítás igazgatási szerve (Social Security Administration Body) 
- a köztestület (public-law corporation) és a köztestületi költségvetési szerv (budgetary organ of a public-law corporation), valamint a közalapítvány (public foundation) 
- a Magyar Távirati Iroda Részvénytársaság (Hungarian News Agency plc.), a közszolgálati műsorszolgáltatók (public service broadcasters), valamint azok a köz-műsorszolgáltatók, amelyek működését többségében közpénzből finanszírozzák (public broadcasters financed mainly from the public budget) 
- az Állami Privatizációs és Vagyonkezelő Részvénytársaság (Hungarian Privatisation and State Holding Company) 
- a Magyar Fejlesztési Bank Részvénytársaság (Hungarian Development Bank Plc.), az a gazdálkodó szervezet, melyben a Magyar Fejlesztési Bank Részvénytársaság ellenőrző részesedéssel rendelkezik (business organisations on which the Hungarian Development Bank Plc. exercises a dominant influence). 
Categories: 
- egyes központi és önkormányzati költségvetési szervek (certain budgetary organs) 
- alapítvány (foundation), társadalmi szervezet (civil society organisations), közhasznú társaság (public benefit company), biztosító egyesület (insurance association), víziközmű-társulat (public utility water works association) 
- business organisations established for the purpose of meeting needs in the general interest and controlled by public entities or financed mainly from the public budget. 
XXII. MALTA: 
1. Kunsill Malti għall-Iżvilupp Ekonomiku u Soċjali (Malta Council for Economic and Social Development) 
2. Awtorità tax-Xandir (Broadcasting Authority) 
3. MITTS Ltd. (Malta Information Technology and Training Services Ltd) 
4. Awtorità għas-Saħħa u s-Sigurta' fuq il-Post tax-Xogħol (Occupational Health and Safety Authority) 
5. Awtorità tad-Djar (Housing Authority) 
6. Korporazzjoni għax-Xogħol u t-Taħrig (Employment and Training Corporation) 
7. Fondazzjoni għas-Servizzi għall-Ħarsien Soċjali (Foundation for Social Welfare Services) 
8. Sedqa 
9. Appoġġ 
10. Kummissjoni Nazzjonali Persuni b'Diżabilita` (National Commission for Persons with Disability) 
11. Bord tal-Koperattivi (Cooperatives Board) 
12. Fondazzjoni għaċ-Ċentru tal-Kreativita` (Foundation for the Centre of Creativity) 
13. Orkestra Nazzjonali (National Orchestra) 
14. Kunsill Malti għax-Xjenza u Teknoloġija (Malta Council for Science and Technology) 
15. Teatru Manoel (Manoel Theatre) 
16. Dar il-Mediterran għall-Konferenzi (Mediterranean Conference Centre) 
17. Bank Ċentrali ta' Malta (Central Bank of Malta) 
18. Awtorità għas-Servizzi Finanzjarji ta' Malta (Malta Financial Services Authority) 
19. Borża ta' Malta (Malta Stock Exchange) 
20. Awtorità dwar il-Lotteriji u l-Logħob (Lotteries and Gaming Authority) 
21. Awtorità ta' Malta dwar ir-Riżorsi (Malta Resources Authority) 
22. Kunsill Konsultattiv dwar l-Industrija tal-Bini (Building Industry Consultative Council) 
23. Istitut għall-Istudju tat-Turiżmu (Institute of Tourism Studies) 
24. Awtorità tat-Turiżmu ta' Malta (Malta Tourism Authority) 
25. Awtorità ta' Malta dwar il-Komunikazzjoni (Malta Communications Authority) 
26. Korporazzjoni Maltija għall-Iżvilupp (Malta Development Corporation) 
27. Istitut għall-Promozzjoni ta' l-Intrapriżi Żgħar (IPSE Ltd) 
28. Awtorità ta' Malta dwar l-Istandards (Malta Standards Authority) 
29. Awtorità ta' Malta ta' l-Istatistika (Malta Statistics Authority) 
30. Laboratorju Nazzjonali ta' Malta (Malta National Laboratory) 
31. Metco Ltd 
32. MGI/Mimcol 
33. Maltapost plc 
34. Gozo Channel Co. Ltd 
35. Awtorità ta' Malta dwar l-Ambjent u l-Ippjanar (Malta Environment and Planning Authority) 
36. Fondazzjoni għas-Servizzi Mediċi (Foundation for Medical Services) 
37. Sptar Zammit Clapp (Zammit Clapp Hospital) 
38. Ċentru Malti għall-Arbitraġġ (Malta Arbitration Centre) 
39. Kunsilli Lokali (Local Councils) 
XXIII. POLAND: 
1. Uniwersytety i szkoły wyższe, wyższe szkoły pedagogiczne, ekonomiczne, rolnicze, artystyczne, teologiczne itp. (Universities and academic schools, pedagogical, economics, agricultural, artistic, theological academic schools, etc.) 
- Uniwersytet w Białymstoku (University of Białystok) 
- Uniwersytet Gdański (University of Gdańsk) 
- Uniwersytet Śląski (University of Silesia in Katowice) 
- Uniwersytet Jagielloński w Krakowie (Jagiellonian University in Cracow) 
- Uniwersytet Kardynała Stefana Wyszyńskiego (The Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw) 
- Katolicki Uniwersytet Lubelski (The Catholic University of Lublin) 
- Uniwersytet Marii Curie-Skłodowskiej (The Maria-Curie Skłodowska University in Lublin) 
- Uniwersytet Łódzki (University of Łódź) 
- Uniwersytet Opolski (University of Opole) 
- Uniwersytet im. Adama Mickiewicza (The Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań) 
- Uniwersytet Mikołaja Kopernika (The Nicholas Copernicus University in Toruń) 
- Uniwersytet Szczeciński (University of Szczecin) 
- Uniwersytet Warmińsko-Mazurski w Olsztynie (University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn) 
- Uniwersytet Warszawski (University of Warsaw) 
- Uniwersytet Wrocławski (University of Wrocław) 
- Uniwersytet Zielonogórski (University of Zielona Góra) 
- Akademia Techniczno-Humanistyczna w Bielsku-Białej (Academy of Humanities and Technics in Bielsko Biała) 
- Akademia Górniczo-Hutnicza im. St. Staszica w Krakowie (The Stanisław Staszic University of Mining and Metallurgy) 
- Politechnika Białostocka (Technical University of Białystok) 
- Politechnika Częstochowska (Technical University of Częstochowa) 
- Politechnika Gdańska (Technical University of Gdańsk) 
- Politechnika Koszalińska (Technical University of Koszalin) 
- Politechnika Krakowska (Technical University of Cracow) 
- Politechnika Lubelska (Technical University of Lublin) 
- Politechnika Łódzka (Technical University of Łódź) 
- Politechnika Opolska (Technical University of Opole) 
- Politechnika Poznańska (Technical University of Poznań) 
- Politechnika Radomska im. Kazimierza Pułaskiego (The Kazimierz Puławski Technical University in Radom) 
- Politechnika Rzeszowska im. Ignacego Łukasiewicza (The Ignacy Łukasiewicz Technical University in Rzeszów) 
- Politechnika Szczecińska (Technical University of Szczecin) 
- Politechnika Śląska (Technical University of Silesia in Gliwice) 
- Politechnika Świętokrzyska (Technical University of Świętokrzyskie in Kielce) 
- Politechnika Warszawska (Technical University of Warsaw) 
- Politechnika Wrocławska (Technical University of Wroclaw) 
- Akademia Morska w Gdyni (Gdynia Maritime University) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Morska w Szczecinie (Maritime University Szczecin) 
- Akademia Ekonomiczna im. Karola Adamieckiego w Katowicach (The Karol Adamiecki University of Economics in Katowice) 
- Akademia Ekonomiczna w Krakowie (University of Economics in Kraków) 
- Akademia Ekonomiczna w Poznaniu (University of Economics in Poznań) 
- Szkoła Główna Handlowa (Warsaw School of Economics) 
- Akademia Ekonomiczna im. Oskara Langego we Wrocławiu (The Oscar Lange University of Economics in Wrocław) 
- Akademia Bydgoska im. Kazimierza Wielkiego (The Kazimierz Wielki University of Economics in Bydgoszcz) 
- Akademia Pedagogiczna im. KEN w Krakowie (Pedagogical University in Cracow) 
- Akademia Pedagogiki Specjalnej im. Marii Grzegorzewskiej (The Maria Grzegorzewska University of Special Pedagogy in Warsaw) 
- Akademia Podlaska w Siedlcach (Podlaska Academy in Siedlce) 
- Akademia Świętokrzyska im. Jana Kochanowskiego w Kielcach (The Jan Kochanowski Swiętokrzyska Academy in Kielce) 
- Pomorska Akademia Pedagogiczna w Słupsku (Pomeranian Pedagogical Academy in Slupsk) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Filozoficzno-Pedagogiczna "Ignatianum" w Krakowie (School of Philosophy and Pedagogy "Ignatianum" in Cracow) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Pedagogiczna im. Tadeusza Kotarbińskiego w Zielonej Górze (The Tadeusz Kotarbiński Pedagogy School in Zielona Góra) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Pedagogiczna w Częstochowie (Pedagogy School in Częstochowa) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Pedagogiczna w Rzeszowie (Pedagogy School in Rzeszów) 
- Akademia Techniczno-Rolnicza im. J. J. Śniadeckich w Bydgoszczy (The J.J. Śniadeckich Technical and Agricultural Academy in Bydgoszcz) 
- Akademia Rolnicza im. Hugona Kołłątaja w Krakowie (The Hugo Kołłątaj Agricultural University in Cracow) 
- Akademia Rolnicza w Lublinie (Agricultural University of Lublin) 
- Akademia Rolnicza im. Augusta Cieszkowskiego w Poznaniu (The August Cieszkowski Agricultural University in Poznań) 
- Akademia Rolnicza w Szczecinie (Agricultural University of Szczecin) 
- Szkoła Główna Gospodarstwa Wiejskiego w Warszawie (Warsaw Agricultural University) 
- Akademia Rolnicza we Wrocławiu (Agricultural University of Wrocław) 
- Akademia Medyczna w Białymstoku (Medical Academy of Białystok) 
- Akademia Medyczna im. Ludwika Rydygiera w Bydgoszczy (The Ludwik Rydygier Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz) 
- Akademia Medyczna w Gdańsku (Medical Academy of Gdańsk) 
- Śląska Akademia Medyczna w Katowicach (Medical Academy of Silesia in Katowice) 
- Collegium Medicum Uniwersytetu Jagiellońskiego w Krakowie (The Collegium Medicum Jagiellonian University in Cracow) 
- Akademia Medyczna w Lublinie (Medical Academy of Lublin) 
- Akademia Medyczna w Łodzi (Medical Academy of Łódź) 
- Akademia Medyczna im. Karola Marcinkowskiego w Poznaniu (The Karol Marcinkowski Medical Academy in Poznań) 
- Pomorska Akademia Medyczna w Szczecinie (Pomeranian Academy of Medicine in Szczecin) 
- Akademia Medyczna w Warszawie (Medical Academy of Warsaw) 
- Akademia Medyczna im. Piastów Śląskich we Wrocławiu (The Piastów Sląskich Medical Academy in Wroclaw) 
- Centrum Medyczne Kształcenia Podyplomowego (Medical Centre for Post-graduate Training) 
- Chrześcijańska Akademia Teologiczna w Warszawie (Christian Theological Academy in Warsaw) 
- Papieski Wydział Teologiczny w Poznaniu (Pope's Theological Department in Poznań) 
- Papieski Fakultet Teologiczny we Wrocławiu (Pope's Theological Faculty in Wrocław) 
- Papieski Wydział Teologiczny w Warszawie (Pope's Theological Department in Warsaw) 
- Akademia Marynarki Wojennej im. Bohaterów Westerplatte w Gdyni (Naval University of Gdynia named for Westerplatte's Heroes) 
- Akademia Obrony Narodowej (National Defence Academy) 
- Wojskowa Akademia Techniczna im. Jarosława Dąbrowskiego w Warszawie (The Jarosław Dąbrowski Technical Military Academy in Warsaw) 
- Wojskowa Akademia Medyczna im. Gen. Dyw. Bolesława Szareckiego w Łodzi (The gen. Bolesław Szarecki Medical Military Academy in Łódź) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Oficerska im. Tadeusza Kościuszki we Wrocławiu (The Tadeusz Kościuszko Military Academy in Wrocław) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Oficerska Wojsk Obrony Przeciwlotniczej im. Romualda Traugutta (The Romuald Traugutt Anti-Aircraft Forces Academy) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Oficerska im. gen. Józefa Bema w Toruniu (The gen. J. Bem Military Academy in Toruń) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Oficerska Sił Powietrznych w Dęblinie (Air Forces Military Academy in Dęblin) 
- Wyższa Szkoła Policji w Szczytnie (Police High School in Szczytno) 
- Szkoła Główna Służby Pożarniczej w Warszawie (The Main School of Fire Service in Warsaw) 
- Akademia Muzyczna im. Feliksa Nowowiejskiego w Bydgoszczy (The Feliks Nowowiejski Academy of Music in Bydgoszcz) 
- Akademia Muzyczna im. Stanisława Moniuszki w Gdańsku (The Stanisław Moniuszko Academy of Music in Gdańsk) 
- Akademia Muzyczna im. Karola Szymanowskiego w Katowicach (The Karol Szymanowski Academy of Music in Katowice) 
- Akademia Muzyczna w Krakowie (Academy of Music in Cracow) 
- Akademia Muzyczna im. Grażyny i Kiejstuta Bacewiczów w Łodzi (The Grażyna i Kiejstut Bacewicz Academy of Music in Łódź) 
- Akademia Muzyczna im. Ignacego Jana Paderewskiego w Poznaniu (The Ignacy Jan Paderewski Academy of Music in Poznań) 
- Akademia Muzyczna im. Fryderyka Chopina w Warszawie (The Fryderyk Chopin Academy of Music in Warsaw) 
- Akademia Muzyczna im. Karola Lipińskiego we Wrocławiu (The Karol Lipiński Academy of Music in Wrocław) 
- Akademia Sztuk Pięknych w Gdańsku (The Academy of Fine Arts in Gdańsk) 
- Akademia Sztuk Pięknych w Katowicach (The Academy of Fine Arts in -Katowice)Akademia Sztuk Pięknych im. Jana Matejki w Krakowie (The Jan Matejko Academy of Fine Arts in Cracow) 
- Akademia Sztuk Pięknych im. Władysława Strzemińskiego w Łodzi (The Władysław Strzemiński Academy of Fine Arts in Łódź) 
- Akademia Sztuk Pięknych w Poznaniu (The Academy of Fine Arts in Poznań) 
- Akademia Sztuk Pięknych w Warszawie (The Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw) 
- Akademia Sztuk Pięknych we Wrocławiu (The Academy of Fine Arts in Wrocław) 
- Państwowa Wyższa Szkoła Teatralna im. Ludwika Solskiego w Krakowie (The Ludwik Solski State Higher Theatre School in Cracow) 
- Państwowa Wyższa Szkoła Filmowa, Telewizyjna i Teatralna im. Leona Schillera w Łodzi (The Leon Schiller State Higher Film, Television and Theatre School in Łódź) 
- Akademia Teatralna im. Aleksandra Zelwerowicza w Warszawie (The Aleksander Zelwerowicz Academy of Theatre in Warsaw) 
- Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego i Sportu im. Jędrzeja Śniadeckiego w Gdańsku (The Jędrzej Śniadecki Academy of Physical Education and Sport in Gdańsk) 
- Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego w Katowicach (Academy of Physical Education in Katowice) 
- Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego im. Bronisława Czecha w Krakowie (The Bronisław Czech Academy of Physical Education in Cracow) 
- Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego im. Eugeniusza Piaseckiego w Poznaniu (The Eugeniusz Piasecki Academy of Physical Education in Poznań) 
- Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego Józefa Piłsudskiego w Warszawie (The Józef Piłsudski Academy of Physical Education in Warsaw) 
- Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego we Wrocławiu (Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw) 
2. Państwowe i samorządowe instytucje kultury (national and self- governing cultural institutions) 
3. Parki narodowe (national parks) 
4. Agencje państwowe działające w formie spółek (national agencies acting in the form of companies) 
5. Państwowe Gospodarstwo Leśne "Lasy Państwowe" ("State Forests" National Forest Holding) 
6. Podstawowe, gimnazjalne i ponadgimnazjalne szkoły publiczne (public primary and secondary schools) 
7. Publiczni nadawcy radiowi i telewizyjni (public radio and TV broadcasters) 
- Telewizja Polska S. A. (Polish TV) 
- Polskie Radio S. A. (Polish Radio) 
8. Publiczne muzea, teatry, biblioteki i inne publiczne placówki kultury itp.: (public museums, theatres, libraries, other public cultural institutions, etc.) 
- Narodowe Centrum Kultury w Warszawie (National Centre for Culture in Warsaw) 
- Zachęta — Państwowa Galeria Sztuki w Warszawie (Zachęta — State Gallery of Art in Warsaw) 
- Centrum Sztuki Współczesnej — Zamek Ujazdowski w Warszawie (Centre for Contemporary Art — Ujazdowski Castle in Warsaw) 
- Centrum Rzeźby Polskiej w Orońsku (Centre for Polish Sculpture in Orońsk) 
- Międzynarodowe Centrum Kultury w Krakowie (International Culture Centre Cracow) 
- Centrum Międzynarodowej Współpracy Kulturalnej — Instytut Adama Mickiewicza w Warszawie (Centre for International Cutural Cooperation — Adam Mickiewicz Institute in Warsaw) 
- Dom Pracy Twórczej w Wigrach (House for Artistic Works in Wigry) 
- Dom Pracy Twórczej w Radziejowicach (House for Artistic Works in Radziejowice) 
- Biblioteka Narodowa w Warszawie (National Library in Warsaw) 
- Naczelna Dyrekcja Archiwów Państwowych (Directorate of the Polish State's Archives) 
- Muzeum Narodowe w Krakowie (National Museum in Cracow) 
- Muzeum Narodowe w Poznaniu (National Museum in Poznań) 
- Muzeum Narodowe w Warszawie (National Museum in Warsaw) 
- Zamek Królewski w Warszawie — Pomnik Historii i Kultury Narodowej (Royal Castle in Warsaw — National History and Culture Monument) 
- Zamek Królewski na Wawelu Państwowe Zbiory Sztuki w Krakowie (Royal Castle Wawel National Collections of Art in Cracow) 
- Muzeum Żup Krakowskich w Wieliczce (Cracow Salt-mine Museum in Wieliczka) 
- Państwowe Muzeum Auschwitz-Birkenau w Oświęcimiu (State Museum Auschwitz-Birkenau in Oświęcim) 
- Państwowe Muzeum na Majdanku w Lublinie (State Museum Majdanek in Lublin) 
- Muzeum Stutthof w Sztutowie (Museum Stutthof in Sztutowo) 
- Muzeum Zamkowe w Malborku (Castle Museum in Marlbork) 
- Centralne Muzeum Morskie w Gdańsku (Central Maritime Museum) 
- Muzeum "Łazienki Królewskie" — Zespół Pałacowo-Ogrodowy w Warszawie (Museum "Łazienki Królewskie" — Palace-garden Complex in Warsaw) 
- Muzeum Pałac w Wilanowie (Palace-museum in Wilanów) 
- Muzeum Wojska Polskiego (Museum for Polish Armed Forces) 
- Teatr Narodowy w Warszawie (National Theatre in Warsaw) 
- Narodowy Stary Teatr im. Heleny Modrzejewskiej w Krakowie (The Helena Modrzejewska Old Theatre in Cracow) 
- Teatr Wielki — Opera Narodowa w Warszawie (Great Theatre — National Opera in Warsaw) 
- Filharmonia Narodowa w Warszawie (National Philharmonic Hall in Warsaw) 
9. Publiczne placówki naukowe, jednostki badawczo- rozwojowe oraz inne placówki badawcze (Public research institutions, research and development institutions and other research institutions) 
XXIV. SLOVENIA: 
- občine (local communities) 
- javni zavodi s področja vzgoje, izobraževanja ter športa (public institutes in the area of child care, education and sport) 
- javni zavodi s področja zdravstva (public institutes in the area of health care) 
- javni zavodi s področja socialnega varstva (public institutes in the area of security) 
- javni zavodi s področja kulture (public institutes in the area of culture) 
- javni zavodi s področja raziskovalne dejavnosti (public institutes in the area of science and research) 
- javni zavodi s področja kmetijstva in gozdarstva (public institutes in the area of agriculture and forestry) 
- javni zavodi s področja okolja in prostora (public institutes in the area of environment and spatial planning) 
- javni zavodi s področja gospodarskih dejavnosti (public institutes in the area of economic activities) 
- javni zavodi s področja malega gospodarstva in turizma (public institutes in the area of small enterprises and tourism) 
- javni zavodi s področja javnega reda in varnosti (public institutes in the area of public order and security) 
- agencije (agencies) 
- skladi socialnega zavarovanja (social security funds) 
- javni skladi na ravni države in na ravni občin (public funds at the level of the central government and local communities) 
- Družba za avtoceste v RS (Motorway Company in the Republic of Slovenia) 
- Pošta Slovenije (The Post Office of Slovenia) 
XXV. SLOVAKIA: 
The procuring entity is defined in Article 3 § 1 of Act No. 263/1999 Z. z. on Public Procurement, as amended, as: 
1. an organisation financed by the State budget (e.g. ministries, other state administration authorities) or co-financed by the State budget (e.g. universities, colleges) and by a State goal-specific fund 
2. a self-governed region, a municipality, an organisation of a self-governed region or municipality financed or co-financed by the same 
3. a health insurance agency 
4. a legal entity established by law as a public institution (e.g. Slovenská televízia, Slovenský rozhlas, Sociálna poisťovňa) 
5. National Property Fund of the Slovak Republic 
6. Slovak Land Fund 
7. association of legal entities which was formed by the procuring entities stated in items 1 to 3. 
Appendix 3 
ENTITIES OPERATING IN THE UTILITIES SECTOR 
ENTITIES WHICH PROCURE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE 
SECTION 1 
Contracting entities in the field of maritime or inland port or other terminal facilities 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Operators of harbours (definition of entities is provided in Article 2, section 1(c)) and Article 3 of act No 40/2004 Sb on Public Procurement). 
ESTONIA 
Entities operating pursuant to Article 5 of the Public Procurement Act (RT I 2001, 40, 224) and Article 14 of the Competition Act (RT I 2001, 56332). 
CYPRUS 
The Cyprus Ports Authority established by the Cyprus Ports Authority Law of 1973 (Η Αρχή Λιμένων Κύπρου, που εγκαθιδρύθηκε από τον περί Αρχής Λιμένων Κύπρου Νόμο του 1973). 
LATVIA 
Authorities, which govern ports in accordance with the law "Likums par ostām": 
Rīgas brīvostas pārvalde (Rīga free port authority) 
Ventspils brīvostas pārvalde (Ventspils free port authority) 
Liepājas ostas pārvalde (Liepāja port authority) 
Salacgrīvas ostas pārvalde (Salacgrīva port authority) 
Skultes ostas pārvalde (Skulte port authority) 
Lielupes ostas pārvalde (Lielupe port authority) 
Engures ostas pārvalde (Engure port authority) 
Mērsraga ostas pārvalde (Mērsrags port authority) 
Pāvilostas pārvalde (Pāvilosta port authority) 
Rojas ostas pārvalde (Roja port authority). 
LITHUANIA 
Valstybės įmonė "Klaipėdos valstybinio jūrų uosto direkcija" (State enterprise Klaipėda State Seaport Authority) operating pursuant to the Lietuvos Respublikos Klaipėdos valstybinio jūrų uosto įstatymas (Žin., 1996, No 53-1245). 
Valstybės įmonė "Vidaus vandens kelių direkcija" (State enterprise Inland Waterways Administration) operating pursuant to the Lietuvos Respublikos vidaus vandenų transporto kodeksas (Žin., 1996, No 105-2393). 
Other entities operating in the field of maritime or inland port or other terminal facilities and being in compliance with the provisions of Lietuvos Respublikos viešųjų pirkimų įstatymas (Žin., 2002, No 118-5296). 
HUNGARY 
Public ports operated fully or partially by the State pursuant to Act XLII of 2000 on water transport (2000. évi XLII. törvény a vízi közlekedésről). 
MALTA 
L-Awtorita' Marittima ta' Malta (Malta Maritime Authority). 
POLAND 
Podmioty zajmujące się zarządzaniem portami morskimi lub śródlądowymi i udostępnianiem ich przewoźnikom morskim i śródlądowym. (Entities operating in the field of management of sea ports or inland harbours and letting them for use to sea and inland carriers.). 
SLOVENIA 
Morska pristanišča v državni ali delni lasti države, ko opravljajo gospodarsko javno službo, skladno s Pomorskim zakonikom (Uradni list RS, 26/01). (Sea ports in full or partial State ownership when performing economic public service in accordance with the Maritime Code (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No 26). 
SLOVAKIA 
The procuring entity is defined in Article 3(2) and (3) of Act No 263/1999 Z. z. on Public Procurement, as amended, as a legal entity which deals in inland navigation by maintaining the waterways and by establishing and maintaining public ports and waterway facilities (Act No 338/2000 Z. z.— e.g. Prístav Bratislava, Prístav Komárno, Prístav Štúrovo). 
SECTION 2 
Contracting entities in the field of airport facilities 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Operators of airports (definition of entities is provided in Article 2 section 1c) and Article 3 of act No 40/2004 Sb on Public Procurement). 
ESTONIA 
Entities operating pursuant to Article 5 of the Public Procurement Act (RT I 2001, 40, 224) and Article 14 of the Competition Act (RT I 2001, 56332). 
LATVIA 
Valsts akciju sabiedrība "Latvijas gaisa satiksme" (State public limited liability company Latvijas gaisa satiksme). 
Valsts akciju sabiedrība "Starptautiskā lidosta Rīga" (State public limited liability company International airport Rīga). 
LITHUANIA 
Airports operating pursuant to the Lietuvos Respublikos aviacijos įstatymas (Žin., 2000, No 94-2918) and Lietuvos Respublikos civilinės aviacijos įstatymas (Žin., 2000, No 66-1983). 
Valstybės įmonė "Oro navigacija" (State enterprise Oro navigacija) operating pursuant to the Lietuvos Respublikos aviacijos įstatymas (Žin., 2000, Nr. 94-2918) and Lietuvos Respublikos civilinės aviacijos įstatymas (Žin., 2000, No 66-1983). 
Other entities operating in the field of airport facilities and being in compliance with the provisions of Lietuvos Respublikos viešųjų pirkimų įstatymas (Žin., 2002, No 118-5296). 
HUNGARY 
Airports operating on the basis of an authorisation pursuant to Act XCVII of 1995 on air traffic (1995. évi XCVII. törvény a légiközlekedésről). 
Budapest Ferihegy International Airport managed by the Budapest Ferihegy International Airport Operator plc. (Budapest Ferihegy Nemzetközi Repülőtér managed by Budapest Ferihegy Nemzetközi Repülőtér Üzemeltetési Rt.) on the basis of Act XVI of 1991 on concessions (1991. évi XVI. törvény a koncesszióról), Act XCVII of 1995 on air traffic (1995. évi XCVII. törvény a légiközlekedésről), Decree No 45/2001. (XII. 20.) KöViM of the Minister of Transport and Water Management on winding-up the Air Traffic and Airport Administration and establishing HungaroControl Hungarian Air Navigation Services (45/2001. (XII. 20.) KöViM rendelet a Légiforgalmi és Repülőtéri Igazgatóság megszüntetéséről és a HungaroControl Magyar Légiforgalmi Szolgálat létrehozásáról). 
MALTA 
L-Ajruport Internazzjonali ta Malta (Malta International Airport). 
POLAND 
Przedsiębiorstwo Państwowe "Porty Lotnicze" (the State enterprise Polish Airports). 
SLOVENIA 
Javna civilna letališča, skladno z Zakonom o letalstvu (Uradni list RS, 18/01). Public civil airports that operate in accordance with Civil Aviation Act (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No 18/01). 
SLOVAKIA 
The procuring entity is defined in Article 3(2) and (3) of Act No 263/1999 Z. z. on Public Procurement, as amended, as a legal entity which deals in civil aviation by establishing and operating public airports and ground aviation facilities (Act No. 143/1998 Z.z. as amended — e.g. Airports — Letisko M.R. Štefánika, Letisko Košice — Barca, Letisko Poprad — Tatry, Letisko Sliač, Letisko Piešťany — managed by Slovenská správa letísk/Slovak Airports Administration/and operating on the basis of a licence issued by Ministry of Transport, Posts and Telecommunications of the Slovak Republic pursuant to paragraph 32 Act No 143/1998 Z. z. on Civil Aviation). 
[1] Non-warlike materials contained in section 3 of Appendix I to Annex XI to this Agreement. 
[2] Procurement of the armed forces of Malta: non-warlike materials contained in section 3 of Appendix I to Annex XI to the Agreement. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX X 
List of publication means to be added to ANNEX XIII to the Association Agreement 
Appendix 2 
ESTONIA 
Official Journal of the European Union 
HUNGARY 
Official Journal of the European Union 
Közbeszerzési Értesítő (Public Procurement Bulletin) 
Lapja (Public Procurement Bulletin — Official Journal of the Public Procurement Council) 
SLOVENIA 
Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Official Journal of the Republic 
Centrální adresa (Central Address) 
CYPRUS 
Official Journal of the European Union 
Official Gazette of the Republic 
Local Daily Press 
POLAND 
Official Journal of the European Union 
Biuletyn Zamówień Publicznych (Public Procurement Bulletin) 
MALTA 
Official Gazette of the Republic 
Government Gazette 
LITHUANIA 
Official Journal of the Republic of Lithuania 
Information supplement "Informaciniai pranesimai" to the Gazette (Valstybes zinios) of the Republic of Lithuania 
LATVIA 
Official Journal of the Republic of Latvia 
Latvijas vestnesis (official newspaper) 
SLOVAKIA 
Official Journal of the European Union 
Vestnik Verejneho Obstaravania (Public procurement journal) 
-------------------------------------------------- 
