92/509/EEC: Council Decision of 19 October 1992 concerning the conclusion of the Framework Agreement for cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Paraguay 
COUNCIL DECISION of 19 October 1992 concerning the conclusion of the Framework Agreement for cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Paraguay (92/509/EEC) 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 113 and 235 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission (1), 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2), 
Whereas the Community should approve, for the attainment of its aims in the sphere of external economic relations, the Framework Agreement for trade and economic cooperation with the Republic of Paraguay, 
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
The Framework Agreement for trade and economic cooperation between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Paraguay is hereby approved on behalf of the Community. 
The text of the Agreement is attached to this Decision. 
Article 2 
The President of the Council shall give the notification provided for in Article 25 of the Agreement (3). 
Article 3 
The Commission, assisted by representatives of the Member States, shall represent the Community in the Joint Committee set up by Article 21 of the Agreement. 
Article 4 
This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
Done at Luxembourg, 19 October 1992. For the Council 
The President 
D. CURRY 
(1) OJ No C 309, 29. 11. 1991, p. 6. (2) OJ No C 150, 15. 6. 1992, p. 363. (3) See page 82 of this Official Journal. 
ANNEX I 
Exchange of Letters on maritime transport 
Letter 1 
Sir, 
When the Agreement on cooperation between the European Economic Community and Paraguay was signed, the Parties undertook to address in an appropriate manner issues relating to the operation of shipping, particularly where the development of trade might be hindered. Mutually satisfactory solutions on shipping will be sought, with due respect for the principle of free and fair competition on a commercial basis. 
It has likewise been agreed that such issues should also be discussed by the Joint Committee. 
I should be obliged if you would inform me whether your Government is in agreement with the above. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of our highest consideration. 
On behalf of the Council of the European Communities 
Letter 2 
Sir, 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today's date which reads as follows: 
'When the Agreement on cooperation between the European Economic Community and Paraguay was signed, the Parties undertook to address in an appropriate manner issues relating to the operation of shipping, particularly where the development of trade might be hindered. Mutually satisfactory solutions on shipping will be sought, with due respect for the principle of free and fair competition on a commercial basis. 
It has likewise been agreed that such issues should also be discussed by the Joint Committee.' 
I have the honour to inform you that my Government is in agreement with the contents of your letter. 
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. 
For the Government of the Republic of Paraguay 
ANNEX II 
Unilateral declaration by the Community on the Generalized System of Preferences 
The European Economic Community hereby reaffirms the importance which it attaches to the Generalized System of Preferences, set up by Resolution 21 (II) of the Second United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. 
The European Community is prepared to examine any suggestions put to it by Paraguay in order to enable that country to make the maximum possible use of the generalized preferences scheme which the Community has implemented in accordance with the abovementioned Resolution. 
Furthermore, in order to ensure that Paraguayan officials and economic agents are properly acquainted with the Community scheme, the Community will arrange information seminars in Paraguay. 
