Council Regulation (EEC) No 2143/87 of 13 July 1987 concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the People's Republic of Mozambique on fisheries relations 
***** 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No 2143/87 
of 13 July 1987 
concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the People's Republic of Mozambique on fisheries relations 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission (1), 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2), 
Whereas the Community and the People's Republic of Mozambique have negotiated and initialled an Agreement on fisheries relations which guarantees fishing opportunities for Community fishermen in waters over which Mozambique has sovereignty or jurisdiction; 
Whereas it is in the Community's interest to approve this Agreement, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
The Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the People's Republic of Mozambique on fisheries relations is hereby approved on behalf of the Community. 
The text of the Agreement is attached to this Regulation. 
Article 2 
The President of the Council is hereby authorized to designate the persons empowered to sign the Agreement in order to bind the Community (3). 
Article 3 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Luxembourg, 13 July 1987. 
For the Council 
The President 
B. SCHALL HOLBERG 
(1) OJ No C 79, 26. 3. 1987, p. 4. 
(2) Opinion delivered on 19 June 1987 (not yet published in the Official Journal). 
(3) The date of entry into force of the Agreement will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities by the General Secretariat of the Council. 
