Council Regulation (EEC) No 3579/91 of 25 November 1991 on the application of Decision No 3/91 of the EEC-Jordan Cooperation Council amending, as a consequence of the introduction of the harmonized system, Protocol 2 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No 3579/91 of 25 November 1991 on the application of Decision No 3/91 of the EEC-Jordan Cooperation Council amending, as a consequence of the introduction of the harmonized system, Protocol 2 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, 
Whereas the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (1) was signed on 18 January 1977; 
Whereas, by virtue of Article 25 of Protocol 2 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation, which forms an integral part of the above Agreement, the EEC-Jordan Cooperation Council has adopted Decision No 3/91 amending Protocol 2; 
Whereas it is necessary to apply this Decision in the Community, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Decision No 3/91 of the EEC-Jordan Cooperation Council shall apply in the Community. 
The text of the Decision is attached to this Regulation. 
Article 2 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
It shall apply from 1 January 1992. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 25 November 1991. 
For the Council 
The President 
J. M. M. RITZEN 
(1) OJ No L 268, 27. 9. 1978, p. 2. 
DECISION No 3/91 OF THE EEC-JORDAN COOPERATION COUNCIL of 4 November 1991 amending, as a consequence of the introduction of the harmonized system, Protocol 2 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation 
THE COOPERATION COUNCIL, 
Having regard to the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on 18 January 1977, 
Having regard to Protocol 2 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation, and in particular Article 25 thereof, 
Whereas the origin rules contained in Protocol 2 are based on the use of the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature; whereas the Customs Cooperation Council approved the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (hereinafter referred to as the 'harmonized system') on 14 June 1983; whereas, since 1 January 1988, the harmonized system has replaced the previous nomenclature for the purposes of international trade; whereas it is therefore necessary to adapt the rules of origin contained in Protocol 2 so that they are based on the use of the harmonized system; 
Whereas, in the light of experience, the presentation of the origin rules could be improved by grouping all the exceptions to the basic change of heading rule into one list and by providing detailed guidance on how it should be interpreted, 
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
In the last subparagraph of Article 1 of Protocol 2, the words 'in List C in Annex IV' shall be replaced by 'in Annex II'. 
Article 2 
Article 3 of Protocol 2 shall be replaced by the following: 
'Article 3 
1. The expressions %quot%Chapters%quot% and %quot%headings%quot% used in this Protocol shall mean the chapters and the headings (four digit codes) used in the nomenclature which makes up the %quot%Harmonized commodity description and coding system%quot% (hereinafter referred to as the harmonized system or HS). 
The expression %quot%classified%quot% shall refer to the classification of a product or material under a particular heading. 
2. For the purposes of Article 1, non-originating materials are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the product obtained is classified in a heading which is different from those in which all the non-originating materials used in its manufacture are classified, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4. 
3. For a product mentioned in columns 1 and 2 of the list in Annex III, the conditions set out in column 3 for the product concerned must be fulfilled instead of the rule in paragraph 2. 
4. For the purpose of implementing Article 1, the following shall always be considered as insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating product, whether or not there is a change of heading: 
(a) operations to ensure the preservation of merchandise in good condition during transport and storage (ventilation, spreading out, drying, chilling, placing in salt, sulphur dioxide or other aqueous solutions, removal of damaged parts, and like operations); 
(b)simple operations consisting of removal of dust, sifting or screening, sorting, classifying, matching (including the making up of sets of articles), washing, painting, cutting up; 
(c) (i) changes of packaging and breaking up and assembly of consignments; 
(ii)simple placing in bottles, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards, etc., and all other simple packaging operations; 
(d)affixing marks, labels or other like distinguishing signs on products or their packaging; 
(e)simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds, where one or more components of the mixture do not meet the conditions laid down in this Protocol to enable them to be considered as originating; 
(f)simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article; 
(g)a combination of two or more operations specified in subparagraphs (a) to (f); 
(h)slaughter of animals.' 
Article 3 
Article 4 of Protocol 2 shall be replaced by the following: 
'Article 4 
1. The term %quot%value%quot% in the list in Annex III shall mean the customs value at the time of the import of the non-originating materials used or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in the territory concerned. 
Where the value of the originating materials used needs to be established, this paragraph shall be applied mutatis mutandis. 
2. The term %quot%ex-works price%quot% in the list in Annex III shall mean the ex-works price of the product obtained minus any internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported.' 
Article 4 
Article 6 of Protocol 2 is hereby amended as follows: 
1. in paragraph 2, the expression 'Article 3 (3)' shall be replaced by 'Article 3 (4)', and the words 'Brussels Nomenclature' by 'Harmonized System'; 
2.the following paragraph shall be added: 
'4. Sets within the meaning of General Rule 3 of the harmonized system shall be regarded as originating when all component articles are originating products. Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating articles, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating provided that the value of the non-originating articles does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.' 
Article 5 
1. Annexes I, II and III to this Decision shall replace Annexes I, II, III and IV to Protocol 2. 
2. Annexes V and VI shall be renumbered IV and V. 
Article 6 
1. Products which were exported before 1 January 1992, accompanied by a movement certificate EUR 1 or form EUR. 2, shall be considered as originating under the rules in force on 1 January 1992. 
2. Movement certificates EUR. 1 or forms EUR. 2 issued or made out before 1 January 1992 under the rules in force before that date shall be accepted up to and including 31 May 1992 according to the rules in force when they were issued. 
3. Articles 19 and 20 of Protocol 2 shall apply in the case of goods exported before 1 January 1992 and retrospective or duplicate movement certificates may be issued under the rules in force before that date. 
Article 7 
This Decision shall apply from 1 January 1992. 
Done at Brussels, 4 November 1991. 
For the Cooperation Council 
The President 
H. VAN DEN BROEK 
Joint Declaration concerning the review of the changes to the origin rules as a result of the introduction of the harmonized system 
Where, following the amendments made to the nomenclature, the new rules introduced by Decision No 3/91 alter the substance of any rule existing prior to Decision No 3/91, and it appears that such alteration results in a situation prejudicial to the interest of the sectors concerned, then, if one of the Contracting Parties so requests in the period up to and including 31 December 1994, an examination shall be made as a matter of urgency by the Cooperation Council, of the need to restore the substance of the rule concerned as it was before Decision No 3/91. 
In any case, the Cooperation Council shall decide to restore, or not to restore, the substance of the rule concerned within a period of three months of the request being made to it by either of the Parties to the Agreement. 
If the substance of the rule concerned is restored, then the Parties to the Agreement shall also provide the legal framework necessary to guarantee that any customs duties improperly levied on the products concerned imported after 1 January 1992 can be reimbursed. 
ANNEX I 
EXPLANATORY NOTES Note 1 - Articles 1 and 2 
The terms 'the Community' and 'Jordan' shall also cover the territorial waters of the Member States of the Community and of Jordan respectively. 
Vessels operating on the high seas, including factory ships, on which fish caught are worked or processed, shall be considered as part of the territory of the State to which they belong provided that they satisfy the conditions set out in Explanatory Note 4. 
Note 2 - Article 1 
The conditions set out in Article 1 relative to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without interruption in the Community or Jordan. 
If originating products exported from the Community or Jordan to another country are returned, they must be considered as non-originating unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: 
- the goods returned are the same goods as those exported, 
and 
- they have not undergone any operations beyond that necessary to preserve them in good condition while in that country. 
Note 3 - Article 1 
In order to determine whether goods originate in the Community or in Jordan it shall not be necessary to establish whether the power and fuel, plant and equipment, and machines and tools used to obtain such goods originate in third countries or not. 
Note 4 - Article 2 (f) 
The terms 'their vessels' shall apply only to vessels: 
- which are registered or recorded in a Member State or in Jordan, 
- which sail under the flag of a Member State or of Jordan, 
- at least 50 % of which are owned by nationals of the Member States and of Jordan or by a company which has its head office in a Member State or in Jordan, of which the manager, managers, chairman of the board, and the majority of the members of such board are nationals of the Member States or of Jordan and of which, in addition, in the case of partnerships or limited companies, at least half the capital belongs to the Member States or to Jordan or to public bodies or nationals of the Member States or of Jordan, 
- of which the captain and officers are all nationals of the Member States or of Jordan, 
- of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of the Member States or of Jordan. 
Note 5 - Articles 2 and 3 
1. The unit of qualification for the application of the origin rules shall be the particular product which is considered as the basic unit when determining classification using the nomenclature of the harmonized system. In the case of sets of products which are classified by virtue of General Rule 3, the unit of qualification shall be determined in respect of each item in the set; this also applies to the sets of heading Nos 6308, 8206 and 9605. 
Accordingly, it follows that: 
- when a product composed of a group or assembly of articles is classified under the terms of the harmonized system in a single heading, the whole constitutes the unit of qualification, 
- when a consignment consists of a number of identical products classified under the same heading of the harmonized system, each product must be taken individually when applying the origin rules. 
2. Where, under General Rule 5 of the harmonized system, packing is included with the product for classification purposes, it shall be included for purposes of determining origin. 
Note 6 - Article 3 (1) 
The Introductory Notes to Annex III shall also apply where appropriate to all products manufactured using non-originating materials even if they are not subject to a specific condition contained in the list in Annex III but are subject instead to the change of heading rule set out in Article 3 (1). 
Note 7 - Article 4 
'Ex-works price' shall mean the price paid to the manufacturer in whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried out, provided the price includes the value of all the products used in manufacture. 
'Customs value' shall be understood as meaning the customs value laid down in the Convention concerning the valuation of goods for customs purposes signed in Brussels on 15 December 1950. 
ANNEX II 
List of products referred to in Article 1 which are temporarily excluded from the scope of this Protocol 
HS heading 
No 
Description of product 
ex 2707 
Oils in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the non-aromatic constituents, being oils similar to mineral oils obtained by distillation of high temperature coal tar, of which more than 65 % by volume distils at a temperature of up to 250 °C (including mixtures of petroleum spirit and benzole), for use as power or heating fuels 
2709 
to 
2715 
Mineral oils and products of their distillation; bituminous substances; mineral waxes 
ex 2901 
Acyclic hydrocarbons for use as power or heating fuels 
ex 2902 
Cyclanes and cyclenes (other than azulenes), benzene, toluene, xylenes, for use as power or heating fuels 
ex 3403 
Lubricating preparations containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals, provided they represent less than 70 % by weight 
ex 3404 
Artificial waxes and prepared waxes with a basis of paraffin, petroleum waxes, waxes obtained from bituminous minerals, slack wax or scale wax 
ex 3811 
Prepared additives for lubricating oil, containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals 
ANNEX III 
List of working or processing required to be carried out on non-originating materials in order that the product manufactured can obtain originating status INTRODUCTORY NOTES 
General 
Note 1: 
1.1. The first two columns in the list describe the product obtained. The first column gives the heading number, or the chapter number, used in the harmonized system and the second column gives the description of goods used in that system for that heading or chapter. For each entry in the first two columns a rule is specified in column 3. Where, in some cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an 'ex', this signifies that the rule in column 3 applies only to the part of that heading or chapter as described in column 2. 
1.2. Where several heading numbers are grouped together in column 1 or a chapter number is given and the description of product in column 2 is therefore given in general terms, the adjacent rule in column 3 applies to all products which, under the harmonized system, are classified in headings of the chapter or in any of the headings grouped together in column 1. 
1.3. Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a heading, each indent contains the description of that part of the heading covered by the adjacent rule in column 3. 
Note 2: 
2.1. The term 'manufacture' covers any kind of working or processing including 'assembly' or specific operations. However, see Note 3.5 below. 
2.2. The term 'material' covers any 'ingredient', 'raw material', 'component' or 'part', etc., used in the manufacture of the product. 
2.3. The term 'product' refers to the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for later use in another manufacturing operation. 
Note 3: 
3.1. In the case of any heading not in the list or any part of a heading that is not in the list, the 'change of heading' rule set out in Article 3 (1) applies. If a 'change of heading' condition applies to any entry in the list, then it is contained in the rule in column 3. 
3.2. The working or processing required by a rule in column 3 has to be carried out only in relation to the non-originating materials used. The restrictions contained in a rule in column 3 likewise apply only to the non-originating materials used. 
3.3. Where a rule states that 'materials of any heading' may be used, materials of the same heading as the product may also be used, subject, however, to any specific limitations which may also be contained in the rule. However, the expression 'manufacture from materials of any heading including other materials of heading No . . .' means that only materials classified in the same heading as the product of a different description than that of the product as given in column 2 of the list may be used. 
3.4. If a product, made from non-originating materials which has acquired originating status during manufacture by virtue of the change of heading rule or its own list rule, is used as a material in the process of manufacture of another product, then the rule applicable to the product in which it is incorporated does not apply to it. 
- For example, an engine of heading No 8407, for which the rule states that the value of the non-originating materials which may be incorporated may not exceed 40 % of the ex works price, is made from 'other alloy steel roughly shaped by forging' of heading No 7224. 
If this forging has been forged in the country concerned from a non-originating ingot then the forging has already acquired origin by virtue of the rule for heading No ex 7224 in the list. It can then count as originating in the value calculation for the engine regardless of whether it was produced in the same factory or another. The value of the non-originating ingot is thus not taken into account when adding up the value of the non-originating materials used. 
3.5. Even if the change of heading rule or the rule contained in the list is satisfied, a product does not have origin if the processing carried out, taken as a whole, is insufficient within the meaning of Article 3 (4). 
Note 4: 
4.1. The rule in the list represents the minimum amount of working or processing required and the carrying out of more working or processing also confers originating status; conversely, the carrying out of less working or processing cannot confer origin. Thus if a rule says that non-originating material at a certain level of manufacture may be used, the use of such material at an earlier stage of manufacture is allowed and the use of such material at a later stage is not. 
4.2. When a rule in the list specifies that a product may be manufactured from more than one material, this means that any one or more of the materials may be used. It does not require that all be used. 
- For example, the rule for fabrics says that natural fibres may be used and that chemical materials, among other materials, may also be used. This does not mean that both have to be used, one can use one or the other or both. 
If, however, a restriction applies to one material and other restrictions apply to other materials in the same rule, then the restrictions only apply to the materials actually used. 
-For example, the rule for sewing machines specifies that the thread tension mechanism used has to originate and that the zigzag mechanism used also has to originate; these two restrictions only apply if the mechanisms concerned are actually incorporated into the sewing machine. 
4.3. When a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a particular material, the condition obviously does not prevent the use of other materials which, because of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy the rule. 
-For example, the rule for heading No 1904 which specifically excludes the use of cereals or their derivatives does not prevent the use of mineral salts, chemicals and other additives which are not produced from cereals. 
-For example, in the case of an article made from non-woven materials, if the use of only non-originating yarn is allowed for this class of article, it is not possible to start from non-woven cloth - even if non-wovens cannot normally be made from yarn. In such cases, the starting material would normally be at the stage before yarn - that is the fibre stage. 
See also Note 7.3 in relation to textiles. 
4.4. If in a rule in the list two or more percentages are given for the maximum value of non-originating materials that can be used, then these percentages may not be added together. The maximum value of all the non-originating materials used may never exceed the highest of the percentages given. Furthermore, the individual percentages must not be exceeded in relation to the particular materials they apply to. 
Textiles 
Note 5: 
5.1. The term 'natural fibres' is used in the list to refer to fibres other than artificial or synthetic fibres and is restricted to the stages before spinning takes place, including waste and unless otherwise specified, the term 'natural fibres' includes fibres that have been carded, combed or otherwise processed but not spun. 
5.2. The term 'natural fibres' includes horsehair of heading No 0503, silk of heading Nos 5002 and 5003 as well as the wool fibres, fine or coarse animal hair of heading Nos 5101 to 5105, the cotton fibres of heading Nos 5201 to 5203 and the other vegetable fibres of heading Nos 5301 to 5305. 
5.3. The terms 'textile pulp', 'chemical materials' and 'paper making materials' are used in the list to describe the materials not classified in Chapters 50 to 63, which can be used to manufacture artificial, synthetic or paper fibres or yarns. 
5.4. The term 'man-made staple fibres' is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of heading Nos 5501 to 5507. 
Note 6: 
6.1. In the case of the products classified in those headings in the list to which a reference is made in this Introductory Note, the conditions set out in column 3 of the list shall not be applied to any basic textile materials used in their manufacture which, taken together, represent 10 % or less of the total weight of all the basic textile materials used (but see also Notes 6.3 and 6.4 below). 
6.2. However, this tolerance may only be applied to mixed products which have been made from two or more basic textile materials, irrespective of their share of the product. 
The following are the basic textile materials: 
- silk, 
- wool, 
- coarse animal hair, 
- fine animal hair, 
- horsehair, 
- cotton, 
- paper making materials and paper, 
- flax, 
- true hemp, 
- jute and other textile bast fibres, 
- sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave, 
- coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, 
- synthetic man-made filaments, 
- artificial man-made filaments, 
- synthetic man-made staple fibres, 
- artificial man-made staple fibres. 
-For example, a yarn of heading No 5205 made from cotton fibres and synthetic staple fibres is a mixed yarn. Therefore, non-originating materials that do not satisfy the origin rules may be used up to a weight of 10 % of the yarn. 
-For example, a woollen fabric of heading No 5112 made from woollen yarn and synthetic yarn of staple fibres is a mixed fabric. Therefore, either non-originating synthetic yarn or woollen yarn or a combination thereof that does not satisfy the origin rules may be used up to a weight of 10 % of the fabric. 
-For example, tufted textile fabric of heading No 5802 made from cotton yarn and cotton fabric is only a mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric being made from two or more different basic textile materials or if the cotton yarns used are themselves mixtures. 
-For example, if the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn and synthetic fabric, then, obviously, two separate basic textile materials would have been used. 
-For example, a carpet with tufts made both from artificial yarns and tufts made from cotton yarns and with a jute backing is a mixed product because three basic textile materials are used. Thus, any non-originating materials that are used at a later stage of manufacture than the rule allows, may be used, provided their total weight taken together does not exceed 10 % of the weight of the textile materials in the carpet. Thus, the jute backing, the artificial yarns and/or the cotton yarns could be imported at that stage of manufacture, provided the weight conditions are met. 
6.3. In the case of fabrics incorporating 'yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether whether or not gimped' this tolerance is 20 % in respect of this yarn. 
6.4. In the case of fabrics incorporating strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of an adhesive between two films of plastic film, this tolerance is 30 % in respect of this strip. 
Note 7: 
7.1. In the case of those textile products, which are marked in the list by a footnote referring to this Introductory Note, textile trimmings and accessories which do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 for the made up product concerned may be used provided that their weight does not exceed 10 % of the total weight of all the textile materials incorporated. 
Textile trimmings and accessories are those classified in Chapters 50 to 63. Linings and interlinings are not to be regarded as trimmings or accessories. 
7.2. Any non-textile trimmings and accessories or other materials used which contain textiles do not have to satisfy the conditions set out in column 3 even though they fall outside the scope of Note 4.3. 
7.3. In accordance with Note 4.3, any non-originating non-textile trimmings and accessories or other product, which do not contain any textiles, may, anyway, be used freely where they cannot be made from the materials listed in column 3. 
-For example, if a rule in the list says that for a particular textile item, such as a blouse, yarn must be used this does not prevent the use of metal items, such as buttons, because they cannot be made from textile materials. 
7.4. Where a percentage rule applies, the value of trimmings and accessories must be taken into account when calculating the value of the non-originating materials incorporated. 
HS heading No 
Description of product 
Working or processing carried out on non-originating 
materials that confers originating status 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
0201 
Meat of bovine animals, fresh or chilled 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except meat of bovine animals, frozen of heading No 0202 
0202 
Meat of bovine animals, frozen 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except meat of bovine animals, fresh or chilled of heading No 0201 
0206 
Edible offal of bovine animals, swine, sheep, goats, horses, asses, mules or hinnies, fresh, chilled or frozen 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except carcases of heading Nos 0201 to 0205 
0210 
Meat and edible meat offal, salted, in brine, dried or smoked; edible flours and meals of meat or meat offal 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except meat and offal of heading Nos 0201 to 0206 and 0208 or poultry liver of heading No 0207 
0302 to 
0305 
Fish, other than live fish 
Manufacture in which all the materials of Chapter 3 used must already be originating 
(1) (2) (3) 0402, 
0404 to 
0406 
Dairy products 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except milk or cream of heading No 0401 or 0402 
0403 
Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yogurt, kephir and other fermented or acidified milk and cream, whether or not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit or cocoa 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials of Chapter 4 used must already be originating, 
-any fruit juice (except those of pineapple, lime or grapefruit) of heading No 2009 used must be originating, and 
-the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
0408 
Birds' eggs, not in shell and egg yolks, fresh, dried, cooked, by steaming or by boiling in water, moulded, frozen or otherwise preserved, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except birds' eggs of heading No 0407 
ex 0502 
Prepared pigs', hogs' or boars' bristles and hair 
Cleaning, disinfecting, sorting and straightening of bristles and hair 
ex 0506 
Bones and horn-cores unworked 
Manufacture in which all the materials of Chapter 2 used must already be originating 
0710 to 
0713 
Edible vegetables, frozen or dried, provisionally preserved except for heading Nos ex 0710 and ex 0711 
Manufacture in which all the vegetable materials used must already be originating 
ex 0710 
Sweet corn (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water), frozen 
Manufacture from fresh or chilled sweet corn 
ex 0711 
Sweet corn, provisionally preserved 
Manufacture from fresh or chilled sweet corn 
0811 
Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water, frozen, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter: 
- Containing added sugar 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the value of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the fruit or nuts used must already be originating 
0812 
Fruit and nuts provisionally preserved (for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions), but unsuitable in that state for immediate consumption 
Manufacture in which all the fruit or nuts used must already be originating 
0813 
Fruit, dried, other than that of heading Nos 0801 to 0806; mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this chapter 
Manufacture in which all the fruit or nuts used must already be originating 
0814 
Peel of citrus fruit or melons (including watermelons), fresh, frozen, dried or provisionally preserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions 
Manufacture in which all the fruit or nuts used must already be originating 
ex Chapter 11 
Products of the milling industry; malt, starches; inulin; wheat gluten, except for heading No ex 1106 
Manufacture in which all the cereals, edible vegetables, roots and tubers of heading No 0714 or fruit used must already be originating 
ex 1106 
Flour and meal of the dried, shelled leguminous vegetables of heading No 0713 
Drying and milling of leguminous vegetables of heading No 0708 
1301 
Lac; natural gums, resins, gum-resins and balsams 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of heading No 1301 used may not exceed 50 % of the exworks price of the product 
1501 
Lard; other pig fat and poultry fat, rendered, whether or not pressed or solvent-extracted: 
- Fats from bones or waste 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except those of heading No 0203, 0206 or 0207 or bones of heading No 0506 
- Other 
Manufacture from meat or edible offal of swine of heading No 0203 or 0206 or of meat and edible offal of poultry of heading No 0207 
1502 
Fats of bovine animals, sheep or goats, raw or rendered, whether or not pressed or solvent-extracted: 
- Fats from bones or waste 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except those of heading No 0201, 0202, 0204 or 0206 or bones of heading No 0506 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the animal materials of Chapter 2 used must already be originating 
1504 
Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish or marine mammals, whether or not refined, but not chemically modified: 
-Solid fractions of fish oils and fats and oils of marine mammals 
Manufacture from materials of any heading including other materials of heading No 1504 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the animal materials of Chapters 2 and 3 used must already be originating 
ex 1505 
Refined lanolin 
Manufacture from crude wool grease of heading No 1505 
1506 
Other animal fats and oils and their fractions, whether or not refined, but not chemically modified: 
- Solid fractions 
Manufacture from materials of any heading including other materials of heading No 1506 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the animal materials of Chapter 2 used must already be originating 
ex1507 to 
1515 
Fixed vegetable oils and their fractions, whether or not refined, but not chemically modified: 
-Solid fractions, except for that of Jojoba oil 
Manufacture from other materials of heading Nos 1507 to 1515 
ex 1507 to 
1515 
(cont'd) 
-Other, except for: 
- Lung oil; myrtle wax and Japan wax 
-Those for technical or industrial uses other than the manufacture of foodstuffs for human consumption 
Manufacture in which all the vegetable materials used must already be originating 
ex 1516 
Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, re-esterified, whether or not refined but not further prepared 
Manufacture in which all the animal and vegetable materials used must already be originating 
ex 1517 
Edible liquid mixtures of vegetable oils of heading Nos 1507 to 1515 
Manufacture in which all the vegetable materials used must already be originating 
ex 1519 
Industrial fatty alcohols having the character of artificial waxes 
Manufacture from materials of any heading including fatty acids of heading No 1519 
1601 
Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal or blood; food preparations based on these products 
Manufacture from animals of Chapter 1 
1602 
Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal or blood 
Manufacture from animals of Chapter 1 
1603 
Extracts and juices of meat, fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates 
Manufacture from animals of Chapter 1. However, all fish, crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates used must already be originating 
1604 
Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar substitutes prepared from fish eggs 
Manufacture in which all the fish or fish eggs used must already be originating 
1605 
Crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic invertebrates, prepared or preserved 
Manufacture in which all the crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates used must already be originating 
ex 1701 
Cane or beet sugar and chemically pure sucrose, in solid form, flavoured or coloured 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
1702 
Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose, maltose, glucose and fructose, in solid form; sugar syrups not containing added flavouring or colouring matter; artificial honey, whether or not mixed with natural honey; caramel: 
-Chemically pure maltose and fructose 
Manufacture from materials of any heading including other materials of heading No 1702 
-Other sugars in solid form, flavoured or coloured 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the materials used must already be originating 
ex 1703 
Molasses resulting from the extraction or refining of sugar, flavoured or coloured 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
1704 
Sugar confectionery (including white chocolate), not containing cocos 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, provided the value of any other materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
1806 
Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, provided the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
1901 
Malt extract; food preparations of flour, meal, starch or malt extract, not containing cocoa powder or containing cocoa powder in a proportion by weight of less than 50 %, not elsewhere specified or included; food preparations of goods of heading Nos 0401 to 0404, not containing cocoa powder or containing cocoa powder in a proportion by weight of less than 10 %, not elsewhere specified or included: 
- Malt extract 
Manufacture from cereals of Chapter 10 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, provided the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
1902 
Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or otherwise prepared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi, ravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether or not prepared 
Manufacture in which all the cereals (except durum wheat), meat, meat offal, fish, crustaceans or molluscs used must already be originating 
1903 
Tapioca and substitutes therefor prepared from starch, in the form of flakes, grains, pearls, siftings or in similar forms 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except potato starch of heading No 1108 
1904 
Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal products (for example, corn flakes); cereals, other than maize (corn), in grain form, pre-cooked or otherwise prepared: 
- Not containing cocoa 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the cereals and flour (except maize of the species Zea indurata and durum wheat and their derivatives) used must be wholly obtained, and 
-the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Containing cocoa 
Manufacture from materials not classified in heading No 1806, provided the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
1905 
Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers' wares, whether or not containing cocoa; communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, except those of Chapter 11 
2001 
Vegetables, fruit nuts and other edible parts of plants, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid 
Manufacture in which all the fruit, nuts or vegetables used must already be originating 
2002 
Tomatoes prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid 
Manufacture in which all the tomatoes used must already be originating 
2003 
Mushrooms and truffles, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid 
Manufacture in which all the mushrooms or truffles used must already be originating 
2004 and 
2005 
Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid, frozen or not frozen 
Manufacture in which all the vegetables used must already be originating 
2006 
Fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts of plants, preserved by sugar (drained, glacé or crystallized) 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
2007 
Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut purée and fruit or nut pastes, being cooked preparations, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used must not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
2008 
Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants otherwise prepared or preserved, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or spirit, not elsewhere specified or included: 
-Fruit and nuts cooked otherwise than by steaming or boiling in water, not containing added sugar, frozen 
Manufacture in which all the fruit and nuts used must already be originating 
-Nuts, not containing added sugar or spirits 
Manufacture in which the value of the originating nuts and oil seeds of heading Nos 0801, 0802 and 1202 to 1207 used exceeds 60 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, provided the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 2009 
Fruit juices (including grape must), unfermented and not containing added spirit, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, provided the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 2101 
Roasted chicory and extracts, essences and concentrates thereof 
Manufacture in which all the chicory used must already be originating 
ex 2103 
-Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed condiments and mixed seasonings 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, mustard flour or meal or prepared mustard may be used 
-Prepared mustard 
Manufacture from mustard flour or meal 
ex 2104 
-Soups and broths and preparations therefor 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, except prepared or preserved vegetables of heading Nos 2002 to 2005 
-Homogenized composite food preparations 
The rule for the heading in which the product would be classified in bulk shall apply 
ex 2106 
Sugar syrups, flavoured or coloured 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used must not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
2201 
Waters, including natural or artificial mineral waters and aerated waters, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter nor flavoured; ice and snow 
Manufacture in which all the water used must already be originating 
2202 
Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured, and other non-alcohlic beverages, not including fruit or vegetable juices of heading No 2009 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, provided the value of any materials of Chapter 17 used does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product and any fruit juice used (except for pineapple, lime and grapefruit juices) must already be originating 
ex 2204 
Wine of fresh grapes, including fortified wines, and grape must with the addition of alcohol 
Manufacture from other grape must 
2205 
ex 2207, 
ex 2208 and 
ex 2209 
The following, containing grape materials: 
Vermouth and other wine of fresh grapes flavoured with plants or aromatic substances; ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured or not; spirits, liqueurs and other spirituous beverages; compound alcoholic preparations of a kind used for the manufacture of beverages; vinegar 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, except grapes or any material derived from grapes 
ex 2208 
Whiskies of an alcoholic strength by volume of less than 50 % vol 
Manufacture in which the value of any cereal based spirits used does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 2303 
Residues from the manufacture of starch from maize (excluding concentrated steeping liquors), of a protein content, calculated on the dry product, exceeding 40 % by weight 
Manufacture in which all the maize used must already be originating 
ex 2306 
Oil cake and other solid residues resulting from the extraction of olive oil, containing more than 3 % of olive oil 
Manufacture in which all the olives used must already be originating 
2309 
Preparations of a kind used in animal feeding 
Manufacture in which all the cereals, sugar or molasses, must or milk used must already be originating 
2402 
Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes, of tobacco or of tobacco substitutes 
Manufacture in which at least 70 % by weight of the unmanufactured tobacco or tobacco refuse of heading No 2401 used must already be originating 
ex 2403 
Smoking tobacco 
Manufacture in which at least 70 % by weight of the unmanufactured tobacco or tobacco refuse of heading No 2401 used must already be originating 
ex 2504 
Natural crystalline graphite, with enriched carbon content, purified and ground 
Enriching of the carbon content, purifying and grinding of crude crystalline graphite 
ex 2515 
Marble, merely cut by sawing or otherwise into blocks or slabs of a rectangular (including square) shape, of a thickness not exceeding 25 cm 
Cutting, by sawing or otherwise, of marble (even if already sawn) of a thickness exceeding 25 cm 
ex 2516 
Granite porphyry, basalt, sandstone and other monumental and building stones, merely cut by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of a rectangular (including square) shape, of a thickness not exceeding 25 cm 
Cutting, by sawing or otherwise, of stones (even if already sawn) of a thickness exceeding 25 cm 
ex 2518 
Calcined dolomite 
Calcination of dolomite not calcined 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex 2519 
Crushed natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite), in hermetically sealed containers, and magnesium oxide, whether or not pure, other than fused magnesia or dead-burned (sintered) magnesia 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite) may be used 
ex 2520 
Plasters specially prepared for dentistry 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 2524 
Natural asbestos fibres 
Manufacture from asbestos concentrate 
ex 2525 
Mica powder 
Grinding of mica or mica waste 
ex 2530 
Earth colours, calcined or powdered 
Calcination or grinding of earth colours 
ex 2707 
Oils in which the weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds that of the non-aromatic constituents, being oils similar to mineral oils obtained by distillation of high temperature coal tar, of which more than 65 % by volume distils at a temperature of up to 250 °C (including mixtures of petroleum spirit and benzole), for use as power or heating fuels 
These are Annex II products 
2709 
to 
2715 
Mineral oils and products of their distillation; bituminous substances; mineral waxes 
These are Annex II products 
ex Chapter 28 
Inorganic chemicals; organic or inorganic compounds of precious metals, of rare earth metals, of radioactive elements or of isotopes; except for heading Nos ex 2811 and ex 2833 for which the rules are set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 2811 
Sulphur trioxide 
Manufacture from sulphur dioxide 
ex 2833 
Aluminium sulphate 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 29 
Organic chemicals, except for heading Nos ex 2901, ex 2902, ex 2905, 2915, ex 2932, 2933 and 2934, for which the position is set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 2901 
Acyclic hydrocarbons for use as power or heating fuels 
These are Annex II products 
ex 2902 
Cyclanes and cyclenes (other than azulenes), benzene, toluene, xylenes, for use as power or heating fuels 
These are Annex II products 
ex 2905 
Metal alcoholates of alcohols of this heading and of ethanol or glycerol 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 2905. However, metal alcoholates of this heading may be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
2915 
Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids and their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids; their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives 
Manufacture from materials of any heading. However, the value of all the materials of heading Nos 2915 and 2916 used may not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 2932 
- Internal ethers and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivates 
Manufacture from materials of any heading. However, the value of all the materials of heading No 2909 used may not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex 2932 
(cont'd) 
- Cyclic acetals and internal hemiacetals and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivates 
Manufacture from materials of any heading 
2933 
Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-atom(s) only; nucleic acids and their salts 
Manufacture from materials of any heading. However, the value of all the materials of heading Nos 2932 and 2933 used may not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
2934 
Other heterocyclic compounds 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 30 
Pharmaceutical products, except for heading Nos 3002, 3003 and 3004, for which the rules are set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
3002 
Human blood; animal blood prepared for therapeutic, prophylactic or diagnostic uses; antisera and other blood fractions; vaccines, toxins, cultures of micro-organisms (excluding yeasts) and similar products: 
-Products consisting of two or more constituents which have been mixed together for therapeutic or prophylactic uses or unmixed products for these uses, put up in measured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 3002. The materials of this description may also be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other: 
- Human blood 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 3002. The materials of this description may also be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Animal blood prepared for therapeutic or prophylactic uses 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 3002. The materials of this description may also be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
-Blood fractions other than antisera, haemoglobin and serum globulin 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 3002. The materials of this description may also be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
-Haemoglobin, blood globulin and serum globulin 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 3002. The materials of this description may also be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 3002. The materials of this description may also be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
3003 
and 
3004 
Medicaments (excluding goods of heading No 3002, 3005 or 3006) 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials of heading No 3003 or 3004 may be used provided their value, taken together, does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
- the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 31 
Fertilizers except for heading No ex 3105 for which the rule is set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 3105 
Mineral or chemical fertilizers containing two or three of the fertilizing elements nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium; other fertilizers; goods of this chapter, in tablets or similar forms or in packages of a gross weight not exceeding 10 kg, except for: 
- Sodium nitrate 
- Calcium cyanamide 
- Potassium sulphate 
- Magnesium potassium sulphate 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 32 
Tanning or dyeing extracts; tannins and their derivatives; dyes, pigments and other colouring matter; paints and varnishes; putty and other mastics; inks; except for heading Nos ex 3201 and 3205, for which the rules are set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 3201 
Tannins and their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives 
Manufacture from tanning extracts of vegetable origin 
3205 
Colour lakes; preparations as specified in Note 3 to this chapter based on colour lakes (1) 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, except heading Nos 3202 and 3204 provided the value of any materials classified in heading No 3205 does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 33 
Essential oils and resinoids; perfumery, cosmetic or toilet preparations; except for heading No 3301, for which the rule is set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
3301 
Essential oils (terpeneless or not), including concretes and absolutes; resinoids; concentrates of essential oils in fats, in fixed oils, in waxes or the like, obtained by enfleurage or maceration; terpenic by-products of the deterpenation of essential oils; aqueous distillates and aqueous solutions of essential oils 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including materials of a different 'group' (2) within this heading. However, materials of the same group may be used, provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex Chapter 34 
Soap, organic surface-active agents, washing preparations, lubricating preparations, artificial waxes, prepared waxes, polishing or scouring preparations, candles and similar articles, modelling pastes, 'dental waxes' and dental preparations with a basis of plaster; except for heading Nos ex 3403 and 3404, for which the position is set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 3403 
Lubricating preparations containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals, provided they represent less than 70 % by weight 
These are Annex II products 
ex 3404 
Artificial waxes and prepared waxes: 
- With a basis of paraffin, petroleum waxes, waxes obtained from bituminous minerals, slack wax or scale wax 
These are Annex II products 
- Other 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, except: 
- hydrogenated oils having the character of waxes of heading No 1516, 
-fatty acids not chemically defined or industrial fatty alcohols having the character of waxes of heading No 1519, 
-materials of heading No 3404. 
However, these materials may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 35 
Albuminoidal substances; modified starches; glues; enzymes; except for heading Nos 3505 and ex 3507 for which the rules are set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
3505 
Dextrins and other modified starches (for example, pregelatinized or esterified starches); glues based on starches, or on dextrins or other modified starches: 
- Starch ethers and esters 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 3505 
- Other 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, except those of heading No 1108 
ex 3507 
Prepared enzymes not elsewhere specified or included 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
Chapter 36 
Explosives; pyrotechnic products; matches; pyrophoric alloys; certain combustible preparations 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 37 
Photographic or cinematographic goods; except for heading Nos 3701, 3702 and 3704 for which the rules are set out below 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
3701 
Photographic plates and film in the flat, sensitized, unexposed, of any material other than paper, paperboard or textiles; instant print film in the flat, sensitized, unexposed, whether or not in packs 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than heading No 3702 
3702 
Photographic film in rolls, sensitized, unexposed, of any material other than paper, paperboard or textiles; instant print film in rolls, sensitized, unexposed 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than heading No 3701 or 3702 
3704 
Photographic plates, film, paper, paperboard and textiles, exposed but not developed 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than heading Nos 3701 to 3704 
ex Chapter 38 
Miscellaneous chemical products; except for heading Nos ex 3801, ex 3803, ex 3805, ex 3806, ex 3807, 3808 to 3814, 3818 to 3820, 3822 and 3823 for which the rules are set out below: 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 3801 
- Colloidal graphite in suspension in oil and semicolloidal graphite; carbonaceous pastes for electrodes 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
-Graphite in paste form, being a mixture of more than 30 % by weight of graphite with mineral oils 
Manufacture from materials of any heading. However, the value of the materials of heading No 3403 used must not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 3803 
Refined tall oil 
Refining of crude tall oil 
ex 3805 
Spirits of sulphate turpentine, purified 
Purification by distillation or refining of raw spirits of sulphate turpentine 
ex 3806 
Ester gums 
Manufacture from resin acids 
ex 3807 
Wood pitch (wood tar pitch) 
Distillation of wood tar 
3808 
to 
3814 
3818 
to 
3820 
3822 
and 
Miscellaneous chemical products: 
-Prepared additives for lubricating oil, containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals, of heading No 3811 
These are Annex II products 
3823 
-The following of heading No 3823: 
- Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores based on natural resinous products 
-Naphthenic acids, their water insoluble salts and their esters 
-Sorbitol other than that of heading No 2905 
-Petroleum sulphonates, excluding petroleum sulphonates of alkali metals, of ammonium or of ethanolamines; thiophenated sulphonic acids of oils obtained from bituminous minerals, and their salts 
-Ion exchangers 
-Getters for vacuum tubes 
-Alkaline iron oxide for the purification of gas 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
3808 
to 
3814 
3818 
to 
3820 
3822 
and 
3823 
(cont'd) 
- Ammoniacal gas liquors and spent oxide produced in coal gas purification 
-Sulphonaphthenic acids, their water insoluble salts and their esters 
-Fusel oil and Dippel's oil 
-Mixtures of salts having different anions 
-Copying pastes with a basis of gelatin, whether or not on a paper or textile backing 
-Other 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
3901 
to 
3915 
Plastics in primary forms, waste, parings and scrap, of plastic: 
- Addition homopolymerization products 
Manufacture in which: 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-the value of any materials of Chapter 39 used does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product (1) 
- Other 
Manufacturing in which the value of the materials of Chapter 39 used does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product (1) 
3916 
to 
3921 
Semi-manufactures of plastics: 
- Flat products, further worked than only surface-worked or cut into forms other than rectangles; other products, further worked than only surface-worked 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 39 used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other: 
-Addition homopolymerization products 
Manufacture in which: 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-the value of any materials of Chapter 39 used does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product (1) 
-Other 
Manufacture in which the value of any materials of Chapter 39 used does not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product (1) 
3922 
to 
3926 
Articles of plastic 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 4001 
Laminated slabs of crepe rubber for shoes 
Lamination of sheets of natural rubber 
4005 
Compounded rubber, unvulcanized, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or strip 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used, except natural rubber, does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
4012 
Retreaded or used pneumatic tyres of rubber; solid or cushion tyres, interchangeable tyre treads and tyre flaps of rubber 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, except those of heading No 4011 or 4012 
ex 4017 
Articles of hard rubber 
Manufacture from hard rubber 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex 4102 
Raw skins of sheep or lambs, without wool on 
Removal of wool from sheep or lamb skins, with wool on 
4104 
to 
4107 
Leather, without hair or wool other than leather of heading No 4108 or 4109 
Retanning of pre-tanned leather 
or 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product 
4109 
Patent leather and patent laminated leather; metallized leather 
Manufacture from leather of heading Nos 4104 to 4107 provided its value does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 4302 
Tanned or dressed furskins, assembled: 
- Plates, crosses and similar forms 
Bleaching or dyeing, in addition to cutting and assembly of non-assembled tanned or dressed furskins 
- Other 
Manufacture from non-assembled, tanned or dressed furskins (1) 
4303 
Articles of apparel, clothing accessories and other articles of furskin 
Manufacture from non-assembled, tanned or dressed furskins, of heading No 4302 (1) 
ex 4403 
Wood roughly squared 
Manufacture from wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of its bark or merely roughed down 
ex 4407 
Wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or peeled, of a thickness exceeding 6 mm, planed, sanded or finger-jointed Planing, sanding or finger-jointing 
ex 4408 
Veneer sheets and sheets for plywood, of a thickness not exceeding 6 mm, spliced, and other wood sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled, of a thickness not exceeding 6 mm, planed, sanded or finger-jointed 
Splicing, planing, sanding or finger-jointing 
ex 4409 
- Wood (including strips and friezes for parquet flooring, not assembled) continuously shaped (tongued, grooved, rebated, chamfered, V-jointed, beaded, moulded, rounded or the like) along any of its edges or faces, sanded or finger-jointed 
Sanding or finger-jointing 
- Beadings and mouldings 
Beading or moulding 
ex 4410 
to 
ex 4413 
Beadings and mouldings, including moulded skirting and other moulded boards 
Beading or moulding 
ex 4415 
Packing cases, boxes, crates, drums and similar packings, of wood 
Manufacture from boards not cut to size 
ex 4416 
Casks, barrels, vats, tubs and other coopers' products and parts thereof, of wood 
Manufacture from riven staves, not further worked than sawn on the two principal surfaces 
ex 4418 
- Builders' joinery and carpentry of wood 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, cellular wood panels, shingles and shales may be used 
-Beadings and mouldings 
Beading or moulding 
ex 4421 
Match splints; wooden pegs or pins for footwear 
Manufacture from wood of any heading except drawn wood of heading No 4409 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
4503 
Articles of natural cork 
Manufacture from cork of heading No 4501 
ex 4811 
Paper and paperboard, ruled, lined or squared only 
Manufacture from paper-making materials of Chapter 47 
4816 
Carbon paper, self-copy paper and other copying or transfer papers (other than those of heading No 4809), duplicator stencils and offset plates, of paper, whether or not put up in boxes 
Manufacture from paper-making materials of Chapter 47 
4817 
Envelopes, letter cards, plain postcards and correspondence cards, of paper or paperboard; boxes, pouches, wallets and writing compendiums, of paper or paperboard, containing an assortment of paper stationery 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 4818 
Toilet paper 
Manufacture from paper-making materials of Chapter 47 
ex 4819 
Cartons, boxes, cases, bags and other packing containers, of paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding or webs of cellulose fibres 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 4820 
Letter pads 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 4823 
Other paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and webs of cellulose fibres, cut to size or shape 
Manufacture from paper-making materials of Chapter 47 
4909 
Printed or illustrated postcards; printed cards bearing personal greetings, messages or announcements, whether or not illustrated, with or without envelopes or trimmings 
Manufacture from materials not classified within heading No 4909 or 4911 
4910 
Calendars of any kind, printed, including calendar blocks: 
- Calenders of the 'perpetual' type or with replaceable blocks mounted on bases other than paper or paperboard 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture from materials not classified within heading No 4909 or 4911 
ex 5003 
Silk waste (including cocoons unsuitable for reeling, yarn waste and garnetted stock), carded or combed 
Carding or combing of silk waste 
5501 
to 
5507 
Man-made staple fibres 
Manufacture from chemical materials or textile pulp 
ex Chapter 50 
to 
Chapter 55 
Yarn, monofilament and thread 
Manufacture from (1): 
- natural fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, 
-chemical materials or textile pulp, or 
-paper-making materials 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex Chapter 50 
to 
Chapter 55 
Woven fabrics: 
- Incorporating rubber thread 
Manufacture from single yarn (1) 
- Other 
Manufacture from (1): 
- coir yarn, 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, 
-chemical materials or textile pulp, or 
-paper 
or 
Printing accompanied by at least two preparatory or finishing operations (such as scouring, bleaching, mercerizing, heat setting, raising, calendering, shrink resistance processing, permanent finishing, decatizing, impregnating, mending and burling) where the value of the unprinted fabric used does not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 56 
Wadding, felt and non-wovens; special yarns, twine cordage, ropes and cables and articles thereof except for heading Nos 5602, 5604, 5605 and 5606, for which the rules are set out below 
Manufacture from (1): 
- coir yarn, 
- natural fibres, 
- chemical materials or textile pulp, or 
-paper-making materials 
5602 
Felt, whether or not impregnated, coated, covered or laminated: 
- Needleloom felt 
Manufacture from (1): 
- natural fibres, 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
However: 
-polypropylene filament of heading No 5402, 
-polypropylene fibres of heading No 5503 or 5506, or 
-polypropylene filament tow of heading No 5501, of which the denomination in all cases of a single filament or fibre is less than 9 decitex may be used provided that their value does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture from (1): 
- natural fibres, 
- man-made staple fibres made from casein, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
5604 
Rubber thread and cord, textile covered; textile yarn, and strip and the like of heading No 5404 or 5405, impregnated, coated, covered or sheathed with rubber or plastics: 
-Rubber thread and cord, textile covered 
Manufacture from rubber thread or cord, not textile covered 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
5604 
(cont'd) 
- Other 
Manufacture from (1): 
- natural fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, 
-chemical materials or textile pulp, or 
-paper-making materials 
5605 
Metallized yarn, whether or not gimped, being textile yarn, or strip or the like of heading No 5404 or 5405, combined with metal in the form of thread, strip or powder or covered with metal 
Manufacture from (1): 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, 
-chemical materials or textile pulp, or 
-paper-making materials 
5606 
Gimped yarn, and strip and the like of heading No 5404 or 5405, gimped (other then those of heading No 5605 and gimped horsehair yarn); chenille yarn (including flock chenille yarn); loop wale-yarn 
Manufacture from (1): 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, 
-chemical materials or textile pulp, or 
-paper-making materials 
Chapter 57 
Carpets and other textile floor coverings: 
- Of needleloom felt 
Manufacture from (1): 
-natural fibres, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp. 
However: 
-polypropylene filament of heading No 5402, 
-polypropylene fibres of heading No 5503 or 5506, or 
-polypropylene filament tow of heading No 5501 of which the denomination in all cases of a single filament or fibre is less than 9 decitex may be used provided that their value does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Of other felt 
Manufacture from (1): 
-natural fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
-Other 
Manufacture from (1): 
-coir yarn, 
-synthetic or artificial filament yarn, 
-natural fibres, or 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex Chapter 58 
Special woven fabrics; tufted textile fabrics; lace; tapestries; trimmings, embroidery, except for heading Nos 5805 and 5810; the rule for heading No 5810 is set out below: 
- Combined with rubber thread 
Manufacture from single yarn (1) 
- Other 
Manufacture from (1): 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
or 
Printing accompanied by at least two preparatory or finishing operations (such as scouring, bleaching, mercerizing, heat setting, raising, calendering, shrink resistance processing, permanent finishing, decatizing, impregnating, mending and burling) where the value of the unprinted fabric used does not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
5810 
Embroidery in the piece, in strips or in motifs 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
5901 
Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous substances, of a kind used for the outer covers of books or the like; tracing cloth; prepared painting canvas; buckram and similar stiffened textile fabrics of a kind used for hatfoundations 
Manufacture from yarn 
5902 
Tyre cord fabric of high tenacity yarn of nylon or other polyamides, polyesters or viscose rayon: 
-Containing not more than 90 % by weight of textile materials 
Manufacture from yarn 
- Other 
Manufacture from chemical materials or textile pulp 
5903 
Textile fabrics impregnated, coated, covered or laminated with plastics, other than those of heading No 5902 
Manufacture from yarn 
5904 
Linoleum, whether or not cut to shape; floor coverings consisting of a coating or covering applied on a textile backing, whether or not cut to shape 
Manufacture from yarn (1) 
5905 
Textile wall coverings: 
-Impregnated, coated, covered or laminated with rubber, plastics or other materials 
Manufacture from yarn 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
5905 
(cont'd) 
- Other 
Manufacture from (1): 
- coir yarn, 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
or 
Printing accompanied by at least two preparatory or finishing operations (such as scouring, bleaching, mercerizing, heat setting, raising, calendering, shrink resistance processing, permanent finishing, decatizing, impregnating, mending and burling) where the value of the unprinted fabric used does not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
5906 
Rubberized textile fabrics, other than those of heading No 5902: 
-Knitted or crocheted fabrics 
Manufacture from (1): 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
-Other fabrics made of synthetic filament yarn, containing more than 90 % by weight of textile materials 
Manufacture from chemical materials 
- Other 
Manufacture from yarn 
5907 
Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated, coated or covered; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio backcloths or the like 
Manufacture from yarn 
ex 5908 
Incandescent gas mantles, impregnated 
Manufacture from tubular knitted gas mantle fabric 
5909 
to 
5911 
Textile articles of a kind suitable for industrial use: 
-Polishing discs or rings other than of felt of heading No 5911 
Manufacture from yarn or waste fabrics or rags of heading No 6310 
- Other 
Manufacture from (1): 
-coir yarn, 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
Chapter 60 
Knitted or crocheted fabrics 
Manufacture from (1): 
- natural fibres, 
- man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
Chapter 61 
Articles of apparel and clothing accessories, knitted or crocheted: 
- Obtained by sewing together or otherwise assembling, two or more pieces of knitted or crocheted fabric which have been either cut to form or obtained directly to form 
Manufacture from yarn (1) 
- Other 
Manufacture from (2): 
-natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
ex Chapter 62 
Articles of apparel and clothing accessories, not knitted or crocheted, except for heading Nos ex 6202, ex 6204, ex 6206, ex 6209, ex 6210, 6213, 6214, ex 6216 and ex 6217 for which the rules are set out below 
Manufacture from yarn (1) 
ex 6202 
ex 6204 
ex 6206 
ex 6209 
and 
ex 6217 
Women's, girls' and babies' clothing and 'other made-up clothing accessories', embroidered 
Manufacture from yarn (1) 
or 
Manufacture from unembroidered fabric provided the value of the unembroidered fabric used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product (1) 
ex 6210 
ex 6216 
and 
ex 6217 
Fire-resistant equipment of fabric covered with foil of aluminized polyester 
Manufacture from yarn (1) 
or 
Manufacture from uncoated fabric provided the value of the uncoated fabric used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product (1) 
6213 
and 
6214 
Handkerchiefs, shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas, veils and the like: 
-Embroidered 
Manufacture from unbleached single yarn (1) (2) 
or 
Manufacture from unembroidered fabric provided the value of the unembroidered fabric used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product (1) 
- Other 
Manufacture from unbleached single yarn (1) (2) 
6301 
to 
6304 
Blankets, travelling rugs, bed linen etc.; curtains, etc.; other furnishing articles: 
- Of felt, of non-wovens 
Manufacture from (2): 
- natural fibres, or 
- chemical materials or textile pulp 
- Other: 
- Embroidered 
Manufacture from unbleached single yarn (2) 
or 
Manufacture from unembroidered fabric (other than knitted or crocheted) provided the value of the unembroidered fabric used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture from unbleached single yarn (2) 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex 6305 
Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods 
Manufacture from (1): 
- natural fibres, 
-man-made staple fibres not carded or combed or otherwise processed for spinning, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
6306 
Tarpaulins, sails for boats, sailboards or landcraft, awnings, sunblinds, tents and camping goods: 
-Of non-wovens 
Manufacture from (1): 
-natural fibres, or 
-chemical materials or textile pulp 
-Other 
Manufacture from unbleached single yarn 
ex 6307 
Other made-up articles, including dress patterns 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product (2) 
6308 
Sets consisting of woven fabric and yarn, whether or not with accessories, for making up into rugs, tapestries, embroidered table cloths or serviettes or similar textile articles, put up in packings for retail sale 
Each item in the set must satisfy the rule which would apply to it if it were not included in the set. However, non-originating articles may be incorporated provided their total value does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set 
6401 
to 
6405 
Footwear 
Manufacture from materials of any heading except for assemblies of uppers affixed to inner soles or to other sole components of heading No 6406 
6503 
Felt hats and other felt headgear, made from the hat bodies, hoods or plateaux of heading No 6501, whether or not lined or trimmed 
Manufacture from yarn or textile fibres (3) 
6505 
Hats and other headgear, knitted or crocheted, or made up from lace, felt or other textile fabric, in the piece (but not in strips), whether or not lined or trimmed; hair-nets of any material, whether or not lined or trimmed 
Manufacture from yarn or textile fibres (3) 
6601 
Umbrellas and sun umbrellas (including walking-stick umbrellas, garden umbrellas and similar umbrellas) 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 6803 
Articles of slate or of agglomerated slate 
Manufacture from worked slate 
ex 6812 
Articles of asbestos or of mixtures with a basis of asbestos or with a basis of asbestos and magnesium carbonate 
Manufacture from fabricated asbestos fibres or from mixtures with a basis of asbestos or with a basis of asbestos and magnesium carbonate 
ex 6814 
Articles of mica; including agglomerated or reconstituted mica on a support of paper, paperboard or other materials 
Manufacture from worked mica (including agglomerated or reconstituted mica) 
7006 
Glass of heading No 7003, 7004 or 7005, bent, edge-worked, engraved, drilled, enamelled or otherwise worked, but not framed or fitted with other materials 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7001 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
7007 
Safety glass, consisting of toughened (tempered) or laminated glass 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7001 
7008 
Multiple-walled insulating units of glass 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7001 
7009 
Glass mirrors, whether or not framed, including rear-view mirrors 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7001 
7010 
Carboys, bottles, flasks, jars, pots, phials, ampoules and other containers, of glass, of a kind used for the conveyance or packing of goods; preserving jars of glass; stoppers, lids and other closures, of glass 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product 
or 
Cutting of glassware, provided the value of the uncut glassware does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
7013 
Glassware of a kind used for table, kitchen, toilet, office, indoor decoration or similar purposes (other than that of heading No 7010 or 7018) 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product 
and 
Cutting of glassware, provided the value of the uncut glassware does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
or 
Hand-decoration (with the exception of silk screen printing) of hand-blown glassware, provided the value of the hand-blown glassware does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 7019 
Articles (other than yarn) of glass fibres 
Manufacture from: 
- uncoloured slivers, rovings, yarn or chopped strands, or 
-glass wool 
ex 7102 
ex 7103 
and 
ex 7104 
Worked precious or semi-precious stones (natural, synthetic or reconstructed) 
Manufacture from unworked precious or semi-precious stones 
7106 
7108 
and 
7110 
Precious metals: 
-Unwrought 
Manufacture from materials not classified in heading No 7106, 7108 or 7110 
or 
Electrolytic, thermal or chemical separation of precious metals of heading No 7106, 7108 or 7110 
or 
Alloying of precious metals of heading No 7106, 7108 or 7110 with each other or with base metals 
-Semi-manufactured or in powder form (All) 
Manufacture from unwrought precious metals 
ex 7107 
ex 7109 
and 
ex 7111 
Metals clad with precious metals, semi-manufactured 
Manufacture from metals clad with precious metals, unwrought 
7116 
Articles of natural or cultured pearls, precious or semi-precious stones (natural, synthetic or reconstructed) 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
7117 
Imitation jewellery 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product 
or 
Manufacture from base metal parts, not plated or covered with precious metals, provided the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
7207 
Semi-finished products of iron or non-alloy steel 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7201, 7202, 7203, 7204 or 7205 
7208 
to 
7216 
Flat-rolled products, bars and rods, angles, shapes and sections of iron or non-alloy steel 
Manufacture from ingots or other primary forms of heading No 7206 
7217 
Wire of iron or non-alloy steel 
Manufacture from semi-finished materials of heading No 7207 
ex 7218 
7219 
to 
7222 
Semi-finished products, flat-rolled products, bars and rods, angles, shapes and sections of stainless steel 
Manufacture from ingots or other primary forms of heading No 7218 
7223 
Wire of stainless steel 
Manufacture from semi-finished materials of heading No 7218 
ex 7224 
7225 
to 
7227 
Semi-finished products, flat-rolled products, bars and rods, in irregularly wound coils, of other alloy steel 
Manufacture from ingots or other primary forms of heading No 7224 
7228 
Other bars and rods of other alloy steel; angles, shapes and sections, of other alloy steel; hollow drill bars and rods, of alloy or non-alloy steel 
Manufacture from ingots or other primary forms of heading No 7206, 7218 or 7224 
7229 
Wire of other alloy steel 
Manufacture from semi-finished materials of heading No 7224 
ex 7301 
Sheet piling 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7206 
7302 
Railway or tramway track construction material of iron or steel, the following: rails, check-rails and rack rails, switch blades, crossing frogs, point rods and other crossing pieces, sleepers (cross-ties), fishplates, chairs, chair wedges, sole plates (base plates), rail clips, bedplates, ties and other material specialized for jointing or fixing rails 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7206 
7304 
7305 
and 
7306 
Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of iron (other than cast iron) or steel 
Manufacture from materials of heading No 7206, 7207, 7218 or 7224 
7308 
Structures (excluding prefabricated buildings of heading No 9406) and parts of structures (for example, bridges and bridge-sections, lock-gates, towers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing frameworks, doors and windows and their frames and thresholds for doors, shutters, balustrades, pillars and columns), of iron or steel; plates, rods, angles, shapes, sections, tubes and the like, prepared for use in structures, of iron or steel 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, welded angles, shapes and sections of heading No 7301 may not be used 
ex 7315 
Skid-chains 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials of heading No 7315 used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 7322 
Radiators for central heating, not electrically heated 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials of heading No 7322 used does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex Chapter 74 
Copper and articles thereof, except for heading Nos 7401 to 7405; the rule for heading No ex 7403 is set out below 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 7403 
Copper alloys, unwrought 
Manufacture from refined copper, unwrought, or waste and scrap 
ex Chapter 75 
Nickel and articles thereof, except for heading Nos 7501 to 7503; 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 76 
Aluminium and articles thereof, except for heading Nos 7601 and 7602; the rules for heading Nos ex 7601 and ex 7616 are set out below 
Manufacture in which 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 7601 
-Aluminium alloys 
Manufacture from aluminium, not alloyed, or waste and scrap 
-'Super-pure' aluminium (ISO No Al 99.99) 
Manufacture from aluminium, not alloyed (ISO No Al 99.8) 
ex 7616 
Aluminium articles other than gauze, cloth, grill, netting, fencing, reinforcing fabric and similar materials (including endless bands) of aluminium wire, and expanded metal of aluminium 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, gauze, cloth, grill, netting, fencing, reinforcing fabric and similar materials (including endless bands) of aluminium wire, or expanded metal of aluminium may be used, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 78 
Lead and articles thereof, except for heading Nos 7801 and 7802; the rule for heading No 7801 is set out below 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
7801 
Unwrought lead: 
- Refined lead 
Manufacture from 'bullion' or 'work' lead 
- Other 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, waste and scrap of heading No 7802 may not be used 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
ex Chapter 79 
Zinc and articles thereof, except for heading Nos 7901 and 7902; the rule for heading No 7901 is set out below 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, and 
- the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
7901 
Unwrought zinc 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, waste and scrap of heading No 7902 may not be used 
ex Chapter 80 
Tin and articles thereof, except for heading Nos 8001, 8002 and 8007; the rule for heading No 8001 is set out below 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, and 
- the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8001 
Unwrought tin 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, waste and scrap of heading No 8002 may not be used 
ex Chapter 81 
Other base metals, wrought; articles thereof 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials classified in the same heading as the products used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8206 
Tools of two or more of the heading Nos 8202 to 8205, put up in sets for retail sale 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than heading Nos 8202 to 8205. However, tools of heading Nos 8202 to 8205 may be incorporated into the set provided their value does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set 
8207 
Interchangeable tools for hand tools, whether or not power-operated, or for machine-tools (for example, for pressing, stamping, punching, tapping, threading, drilling, boring, broaching, milling, turning or screwdriving), including dies for drawing or extruding metal, and rock-drilling or earth-boring tools 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, and 
- the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8208 
Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for mechanical appliances 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product, and 
- the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
(1) (2) (3) ex 8211 
Knives with cutting blades, serrated or not (including pruning knives), other than knives of heading No 8208 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, knife blades and handles of base metal may be used 
8214 
Other articles of cutlery (for example, hair clippers, butcher's or kitchen cleavers, choppers and mincing knives, paper knives); manicure or pedicure sets and instruments (including nail files) 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, handles of base metal may be used 
8215 
Spoons, forks, ladles, skimmers, cake-servers, fish-knives, butter-knives, sugar tongs and similar kitchen or tableware 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, handles of base metal may be used 
ex 8306 
Statuettes and other ornaments, of base metal 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than that of the product. However, the other materials of heading No 8306 may be used provided their value does not exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 84 
Nuclear reactors, boilers, machinery and mechanical appliances; parts thereof; except for those falling within the following headings or parts of headings for which the rules are set out below: 
8402, 8403, ex 8404, 8406 to 8409, 8411, 8412, ex 8413, ex 8414, 8415, 8418, ex 8419, 8420, 8423, 8425 to 8430, ex 8431, 8439, 8441, 8444 to 8447, ex 8448, 8452, 8456 to 8466, 8469 to 8472, 8480, 8482, 8484 and 8485 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8403 
and 
ex 8404 
Central heating boilers, other than those of heading No 8402, and auxiliary plant for central heating boilers 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified in a heading other than heading No 8403 or 8404. However, materials which are classified in heading No 8403 or 8404 may be used provided their value, taken together, does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8406 
Steam turbines and other vapour turbines 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8407 
Spark-ignition reciprocating or rotary internal combustion piston engines 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8408 
Compression-ignition internal combustion piston engines (diesel or semi-diesel engines) 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8409 
Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the engines of heading No 8407 or 8408 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8412 
Other engines and motors 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8415 
Air conditioning machines, comprising a motor-driven fan and elements for changing the temperature and humidity, including those machines in which the humidity cannot be seperately regulated 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8418 
Refrigerators, freezers and other refrigerating or freezing equipment, electric or other heat pumps other than air conditioning machines of heading No 8415 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
ex 8419 
Machines for the wood, paper pulp and paper board industries 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 25 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8420 
Calendering or other rolling machines, other than for metals or glass, and cylinders therefor 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 25 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8425 
to 
8428 
Lifting, handling, loading or unloading machinery 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
- where, within the above limit, the materials classified in heading No 8431 are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8429 
Self-propelled bulldozers, angledozers, graders, levellers, scrapers, mechanical shovels, excavators, shovel loaders, temping machines and road rollers: 
- Road rollers 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
- where, within the above limit, the value of the materials classified within heading No 8431 are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8430 
Other moving, grading, levelling, scraping, excavating, temping, compacting, extracting or boring machinery, for earth, minerals or ores; pile-drivers and pile-extractors; snow-ploughs and snowblowers 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
- where, within the above limit, the value of the materials classified within heading No 8431 are only used up to value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 8431 
Parts for road rollers 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8439 
Machinery for making pulp of fibrous cellulosic material or for making or finishing paper or paperboard 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
- where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 25 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8441 
Other machinery for making up paper pulp, paper or paperboard, including cutting machines of all kinds 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 25 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8444 
to 
8447 
Machines of these headings for use in the textile industry 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 8448 
Auxiliary machinery for use with machines for heading Nos 8444 and 8445 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8452 
Sewing machines, other than book sewing machines of heading No 8440; furniture, bases and covers specially designed for sewing machines; sewing machine needles: 
-Sewing machines (lock stitch only) with heads of a weight not exceeding 16 kg without motor or 17 kg with motor 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all of the non-originating materials used in assembling the head (without motor) does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the thread tension, crochet and zigzag mechanisms used are already originating 
- Other 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8456 
to 
8466 
Machine-tools and machines and their parts and accessories of heading Nos 8456 to 8466 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8469 
to 
8472 
Office machines (for example, typewriters, calculating machines, automatic data-processing machines, duplicating machines, stapling machines) 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8480 
Moulding boxes for metal foundry; mould bases; moulding patterns; moulds for metal (other than ingot moulds), metal carbides, glass, mineral materials, rubber or plastics 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8484 
Gaskets and similar joints of metal sheeting combined with other material or of two or more layers of metal; sets or assortments of gaskets and similar joints, dissimilar in composition, put up in pouches, envelopes or similar packings 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8485 
Machinery parts, not containing electrical connectors, insulators, coils, contacts or other electrical features, not specified or included elsewhere in this chapter 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 85 
Electrical machinery and equipment and parts thereof; sound recorders and reproducers, television image and sound recorders and reproducers and parts and accessories of such articles; except for those falling within the following headings or parts of headings for which the rules are set out below: 
8501, 8502, ex 8518, 8519 to 8529, 8535 to 8537, ex 8541, 8542, 8544 to 8548 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8501 
Electric motors and generators (excluding generating sets) 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within heading No 8503 are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8502 
Electric generating sets and rotary converters 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within heading No 8501 or 8503, taken together, are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 8518 
Microphones and stands therefor; loudspeakers, whether or not mounted in their enclosures; audio-frequency electric amplifiers; electric sound amplifier sets 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8519 
Turntables (record-decks), record-players, cassette-players and other sound reproducing apparatus, not incorporating a sound recording device 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8520 
Magnetic tape recorders and other sound recording apparatus, whether or not incorporating a sound reproducing device 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and, 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8521 
Video recording or reproducing apparatus 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8522 
Parts and accessories of apparatus of heading Nos 8519 to 8521 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8523 
Prepared unrecorded media for sound recording or similar recording of other phenomena, other than products of Chapter 37 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8524 
Records, tapes and other recorded media for sound or other similarly recorded phenomena, including matrices and masters for the production of records, but excluding products of Chapter 37: 
-Matrices and masters for the production of records 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within heading No 8523 are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8525 
Transmission apparatus for radio-telephony, radio-telegraphy, radio-broadcasting or television, whether or not incorporating reception apparatus or sound recording or reproducing apparatus; television cameras 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8526 
Radar apparatus, radio navigational aid apparatus and radio remote control apparatus 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8527 
Reception apparatus for radio-telephony, radio-telegraphy or radio-broadcasting, whether or not combined, in the same housing, with sound recording or reproducing apparatus or a clock 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8528 
Television receivers (including video monitors and video projectors), whether or not combined, in the same housing, with radio-broadcast receivers or sound or video recording or reproducing apparatus 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8529 
Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the apparatus of heading Nos 8525 to 8528 
-Suitable for use solely or principally with video recording or reproducing apparatus 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used, and 
-the value of all the transistors of heading No 8541 used does not exceed 3 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8535 
and 
8536 
Electrical apparatus for switching or protecting electrical circuits, or for making connections to or in electrical circuits 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within heading No 8538 are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8537 
Boards, panels (including numerical control panels), consoles, desks, cabinets and other bases, equipped with two or more apparatus of heading No 8535 or 8536, for electric control or the distribution of electricity, including those incorporating instruments or apparatus of Chapter 90, other than switching apparatus of heading No 8517 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within heading No 8538 are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8542 
Electronic integrated circuits and microassemblies 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within heading No 8541 or 8542, taken together, are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8544 
Insulated (including enamelled or anodized) wire, cable (including co-axial cable) and other insulated electric conductors, whether or not fitted with connectors; optical fibre cables, made up of individually sheathed fibres, whether or not assembled with electric conductors or fitted with connectors 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8545 
Carbon electrodes, carbon brushes, lamp carbons, battery carbons and other articles of graphite or other carbon, with or without metal, of a kind used for electrical purposes 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8546 
Electrical insulators of any material 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8548 
Electrical parts of machinery or apparatus, not specified or included elsewhere in this chapter 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8601 
to 
8607 
Railway or tramway locomotives, rolling-stock and parts thereof 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8608 
Railway or tramway track fixtures and fittings; mechanical (including electromechanical) signalling, safety or traffic control equipment for railways, tramways, roads, inland waterways, parking facilities, port installations or airfields; parts of the foregoing 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8609 
Containers (including containers for the transport of fluids) specially designed and equipped for carriage by one or more modes of transport 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 87 
Vehicles other than railway or tramway rolling-stock and parts and accessories thereof; except for those falling within the following headings or parts of headings for which the rules are set out below: 
8709 to 8711, ex 8712, 8715 and 8716 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8709 
Works trucks, self-propelled, not fitted with lifting or handling equipment, of the type used in factories, warehouses, dock areas or airports for short distance transport of goods; tractors of the type used on railway station platforms; parts of the foregoing vehicles 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8710 
Tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles, motorized, whether or not fitted with weapons, and parts of such vehicles 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8711 
Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor, with or without side-cars; side-cars 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
ex 8712 
Bicycles without ball bearings 
Manufacture from materials not classified within heading No 8714 
8715 
Baby carriages and parts thereof 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8716 
Trailers and semi-trailers; other vehicles, not mechanically propelled; parts thereof 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8803 
Parts of goods of heading No 8801 or 8802 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials of heading No 8803 used does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8804 
Parachutes (including dirigible parachutes) and rotochutes; parts thereof and accessories thereto: 
- Rotochutes 
Manufacture from materials of any heading including other materials of heading No 8804 
- Other 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials of heading No 8804 used does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
8805 
Aircraft launching gear; deck-arrestor or similar gear; ground flying trainers; parts of the foregoing articles 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials of heading No 8805 used does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
Chapter 89 
Ships, boats and floating structures 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, hulls of heading No 8906 may not be used 
ex Chapter 90 
Optical, photographic, cinematographic, measuring, checking, precision, medical or surgical instruments and apparatus; parts and accessories thereof; except for those falling within the following headings or parts of headings for which the rules are set out below: 
9001, 9002, 9004, ex 9005, ex 9006, 9007, 9011, ex 9014, 9015 to 9020 and 9024 to 9033 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9001 
Optical fibres and optical fibre bundles; optical fibre cables other than those of heading No 8544; sheets and plates of polarizing material; lenses (including contact lenses), prisms, mirrors and other optical elements, of any material, unmounted, other than such elements of glass not optically worked 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9002 
Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other optical elements, of any material, mounted, being parts of or fittings for instruments or apparatus, other than such elements of glass not optically worked 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9004 
Spectacles, goggles and the like, corrective, protective or other 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 9005 
Binoculars, monoculars, other optical telescopes, and mountings therefor, except for astronomical refracting telescopes and mountings therefor 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
ex 9006 
Photographic (other than cinematographic) cameras; photographic flashlight apparatus and flashbulbs other than electrically ignited flashbulbs 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
9007 
Cinematographic cameras and projectors, whether or not incorporating sound recording or reproducing apparatus 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
9011 
Compound optical microscopes, including those for photomicrography, cinephotomicrography or microprojection 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
ex 9014 
Other navigational instruments and appliances 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9015 
Surveying (including photogrammetrical surveying), hydrographic, oceanographic, hydrological, meteorological or geophysical instruments and appliances, excluding compasses; rangefinders 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9016 
Balances of a sensitivity of 5 cg or better, with or without weights 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9017 
Drawing, marking-out or mathematical calculating instruments (for example, drafting machines, pantographs, protractors, drawing sets, slide rules, disc calculators); instruments for measuring length, for use in the hand (for example, measuring rods and tapes, micrometers, callipers), not specified or included elsewhere in this chapter 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 9018 
Dentists' chairs incorporating dental appliances or dentists' spittoons 
Manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No 9018 
9024 
Machines and appliances for testing the hardness, strength, compressibility, elasticity or other mechanical properties of materials (for example, metals, wood, textiles, paper, plastics) 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9025 
Hydrometers and similar floating instruments, thermometers, pyrometers, barometers, hygrometers and psychrometers, recording or not, and any combination of these instruments 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9026 
Instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking the flow, level, pressure or other variables of liquids or gases (for example, flow meters, level gauges, manometers, heat meters), excluding instruments and apparatus of heading No 9014, 9015, 9028 or 9032 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9027 
Instruments and apparatus for physical or chemical analysis (for example, polarimeters, refractometers, spectrometers, gas or smoke analysis apparatus); instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking viscosity, porosity, expansion, surface tension or the like; instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking quantities of heat, sound or light (including exposure meters); microtomes 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9028 
Gas, liquid or electricity supply or production meters, including calibrating meters therefor: 
- Parts and accessories 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
9029 
Revolution counters, production counters, taximeters, mileometers, pedometers and the like; speed indicators and tachometers, other than those of heading No 9014 or 9015; stroboscopes 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9030 
Oscilloscopes, spectrum analysers and other instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking electrical quantities, excluding meters of heading No 9028; instruments and apparatus for measuring or detecting alpha, beta, gamma, X-ray, cosmic or other ionizing radiations 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9031 
Measuring or checking instruments, appliances and machines, not specified or included elsewhere in this chapter; profile projectors 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9032 
Automatic regulating or controlling instruments and apparatus 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9033 
Parts and accessories (not specified or included elsewhere in this chapter) for machines, appliances, instruments or apparatus of Chapter 90 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex Chapter 91 
Clocks and watches and parts thereof; except for those falling within the following headings for which the rules are set out below: 
9105, 9109 to 9113 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9105 
Other clocks 
Manufacture: 
- in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
9109 
Clock movements, complete and assembled 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where the value of all the non-originating materials used does not exceed the value of the originating materials used 
9110 
Complete watch or clock movements, unassembled or partly assembled (movement sets); incomplete watch or clock movements, assembled; rough watch or clock movements 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within heading No 9114 are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9111 
Watch cases and parts thereof 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9112 
Clock cases and cases of a similar type for other goods of this chapter, and parts thereof 
Manufacture: 
-in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-where, within the above limit, the materials classified within the same heading as the product are only used up to a value of 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9113 
Watch straps, watch bands and watch bracelets, and parts thereof: 
-Of base metal, whether or not plated, or clad with precious metal 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
- Other 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
Chapter 92 
Musical instruments; parts and accessories of such articles 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price of the product 
Chapter 93 
Arms and ammunitions; parts and accessories thereof 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 9401 
and 
ex 9403 
Base metal furniture, incorporating unstuffed cotton cloth of a weight of 300 g/m² or less 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product 
or 
Manufacture from cotton cloth already made up in a form ready for use of heading No 9401 or 9403, provided: 
-its value does not exceed 25 % of the ex-works price of the product, and 
-all the other materials used are already originating and are classified within a heading other than heading No 9401 or 9403 
9405 
Lamps and lighting fittings including searchlights and spotlights and parts thereof, not elsewhere specified or included; illuminated signs, illuminated name-plates and the like, having a permanently fixed light source, and parts thereof not elsewhere specified or included 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9406 
Prefabricated buildings 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9503 
Other toys; reduced-size ('scale') models and similar recreational models, working or not; puzzles of all kinds 
Manufacture in which: 
-all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-provided the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 9506 
Finished golf club heads 
Manufacture from roughly shaped blocks 
9507 
Fishing rods, fish-hooks and other line fishing tackle; fish landing nets, butterfly nets and similar nets; decoy 'birds' (other than those of heading No 9208 or 9705) and similar hunting or shooting requisites 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, materials classified within the same heading may be used provided their value does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 9601 
and 
ex 9602 
Articles of animal, vegetable or mineral carving materials 
Manufacture from 'worked' carving materials of the same heading 
ex 9603 
Brooms and brushes (except for besoms and the like and brushes made from marten or squirrel hair), hand-operated mechanical floor sweepers, not motorized, paint pads and rollers, squeegees and mops 
Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9605 
Travel sets for personal toilet, sewing or shoe or clothes cleaning 
Each item in the set must satisfy the rule which would apply to it if it were not included in the set. However, non-originating articles may be incorporated, provided their total value does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set 
9606 
Buttons, press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and press-studs, button moulds and other parts of these articles; button blanks 
Manufacture in which: 
- all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9608 
Ball point pens; felt tipped and other porous-tipped pens and markers; fountain pens, stylograph pens and other pens; duplicating stylos; propelling or sliding pencils; pen-holders, pencil-holders and similar holders; parts (including caps and clips) of the foregoing articles, other than those of heading No 9609 
Manufacture in which all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product. However, nibs or nib points may be used and the other materials classified within the same heading may also be used provided their value does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the product 
9612 
Typewriter or similar ribbons, inked or otherwise prepared for giving impressions, whether or not on spools or in cartridges; ink-pads, whether or not inked, with or without boxes 
Manufacture in which 
- all the materials used are classified within a heading other than that of the product, and 
-the value of all the materials used does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the product 
ex 9614 
Smoking pipes or pipe bowls 
Manufacture from roughly shaped blocks 
(1) Note 3 to Chapter 32 says that these preparations are those of a kind used for colouring any material or used as ingredients in the manufacturing of colouring preparations, provided they are not classified within another heading in Chapter 32. 
(2)A 'group' is regarded as any part of the heading separated from the rest by a semicolon.(1) In the case of products composed of materials classified within both heading Nos 3901 to 3906, on the one hand, and within heading Nos 3907 to 3911, on the other hand, this restriction only applies to that group of materials which predominates by weight in the product.(1) Until 31 March 1990, assembled suzluki, grey Siberian squirrel and hamster skins of heading No 4302 may be used. (1) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. (1) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6.(1) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. (1) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6.(1) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
(1) See Introductory Note 7 for the treatment of textile trimmings and accessories. 
(2) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6.(1) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 6. 
(2) For filter masks, manufacture from undrawn polyester staple fibres is permitted. This special provision shall apply until 31 March 1988. 
(3) See Introductory Note 7 for the treatment of textile trimmings and accessories. 
