Council Joint Action 2004/796/CFSP of 22 November 2004 for the support of the physical protection of a nuclear site in the Russian Federation 
Council Joint Action 2004/796/CFSP 
of 22 November 2004 
for the support of the physical protection of a nuclear site in the Russian Federation 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard of the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Article 14 thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) The European Union Cooperation Programme for Non-proliferation and Disarmament in the Russian Federation, adopted in the framework of the Common Strategy 1999/414/CFSP of the European Union of 4 June 1999 on Russia [1] and established by Council Joint Action 1999/878/CFSP [2], ended on 24 June 2004. 
(2) The EU Strategy against the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction which was adopted by the European Council on 12 December 2003 contains, in its Chapter III, a list of measures to combat such proliferation and which needs to be taken both within the European Union and in third countries. 
(3) In line with Chapter III of the EU Strategy against the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, the European Union must make use of all its instruments to prevent, deter, halt, and if possible eliminate proliferation that causes concern at global level. 
(4) The physical protection of nuclear materials and facilities, including obsolete reactors and their spent fuel is one of the specific measures contained in the EU Strategy against the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. 
(5) To ensure coherence of the European Union's external actions, its activities should take place in a coordinated way with activities carried out by the European Community and Member States. 
(6) Measures to reinforce the physical protection of Russian nuclear sites have been already undertaken by Federal Republic of Germany, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS JOINT ACTION: 
Article 1 
The objective of this Joint Action is to support a project for the implementation of physical protection measures at the Bochvar Institute in Moscow of the Russian Federal Agency for Atomic Energy. A detailed description of the objectives and activities envisaged by the project are set out in Annex I. 
Article 2 
The Presidency, assisted by the Secretary-General of the Council/High Representative for the CSFP, shall be responsible for the implementation of this Joint Action. 
Article 3 
The Federal Republic of Germany shall be responsible for the technical implementation of this Joint Action in the framework of its bilateral programme in this area. 
Article 4 
1. The financial reference amount intended to cover the costs for the implementation of this Joint Action shall be EUR 7937000. 
2. The Commission shall be entrusted with the task of controlling and evaluating the financial aspects of the implementation of this Joint Action. 
3. The management of the expenditure financed by the general budget of the European Union specified in paragraph 1 shall be subject to the procedures and rules of the Community applying to budget matters with the exception that any pre-financing shall not remain the property of the Community. 
4. The Commission shall be assisted by one expert, whose responsibilities are set out in Annex II, in the fulfilment of its tasks under this Article. 
Article 5 
The Council and the Commission shall ensure appropriate coordination between this Joint Action, other Community assistance and any other bilateral assistance provided by Member States. 
Article 6 
1. The Presidency, assisted by the Secretary-General of the Council/High Representative for the CFSP, shall report to the Council every six months on the implementation of this Joint Action and on the basis of the reports provided by the implementing entity referred to in point 5 of Annex I. These reports shall also assess the capacity of the Russian Federation to absorb and utilise the assistance provided. The Commission shall be fully associated in the reporting and other related tasks. 
2. The Council may decide to suspend the implementation of the project if the Russian Federation fails: 
(a) to cooperate fully in the implementation of this Joint Action; 
(b) to allow European Union's monitoring and/or evaluations and audits to that effect; 
(c) to meet its obligations under the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation establishing a Partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part [3]. 
Article 7 
This Joint Action shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. 
It shall expire three years after the date of its adoption, unless the Council decides otherwise. 
Article 8 
This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
Done at Brussels, 22 November 2004. 
For the Council 
The President 
B. R. Bot 
-------------------------------------------------- 
[1] OJ L 157, 24.6.1999, p. 1. Common Strategy as amended by Common Strategy 2003/471/CFSP of the European Council (OJ L 157, 26.6.2003, p. 68). 
[2] OJ L 331, 23.12.1999, p. 11. Joint Action as amended by Decision 2002/381/CFSP (OJ L 136, 24.5.2002, p. 1). 
[3] OJ L 327, 28.11.1997, p. 3. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
+++++ ANNEX 1 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
+++++ ANNEX 2 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
