Commission opinion 
of 3 August 2005 
concerning the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste at the Aube Storage Centre located in France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty 
(2005/C 195/03) 
(Only the French text is authentic) 
On 13 December 2004, the European Commission received from the Government of France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty, General Data relating to the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste at the Aube Storage Centre. 
On the basis of the General Data and the additional information requested by the Commission on 3 March 2005 and provided by the French authorities on 5 April 2005, and following consultation with the Group of Experts, the Commission has drawn up the following opinion: 
1. The distance between the plant and the nearest point on the territory of another Member State, in this case Belgium and Luxembourg, is approximately 150 km. 
2. The modification envisaged results from developments in French national law which require certain installations at the storage centre to have an authorisation for release of gaseous and liquid radioactive effluents. 
3. Solid radioactive waste is stored at the site or, if it is very low level waste, is transferred to an approved storage site. 
4. In normal operation, the modification envisaged will not cause an exposure that is significant from the point of view of health for the population of another Member State. 
5. In the event of unplanned releases of radioactive effluents resulting from an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, the planned modification will not give rise to any significant effect from the point of view of health on the population of another Member State. 
In conclusion, the Commission is of the opinion that the implementation of the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste in whatever form at the Aube Storage Centre in France, both in normal operation and in the event of an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, is not liable to result in radioactive contamination, significant from the point of view of health, of the water, soil or airspace of another Member State. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
