2006/890/Euratom: Commission Decision of 4 December 2006 concerning the conclusion on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community of a Framework Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation and of the Protocol on Claims, Legal Proceedings and Indemnification to the Framework Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation (notified under document number C(2006) 5219) 
Commission Decision 
of 4 December 2006 
concerning the conclusion on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community of a Framework Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation and of the Protocol on Claims, Legal Proceedings and Indemnification to the Framework Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation 
(notified under document number C(2006) 5219) 
(2006/890/Euratom) 
THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 101(2) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) In accordance with the directives adopted by the Council Decision of 10 April 2000, the Commission participated in the negotiations with the Russian Federation on an Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation and a Protocol on Claims, Legal Proceedings and Indemnification. 
(2) A Framework Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation (MNEPR) and the Protocol on Claims, Legal Proceedings and Indemnification to the Framework Agreement on a MNEPR were signed in Stockholm on 21 May 2003. 
(3) The Framework Agreement was signed by the European Community, the European Atomic Energy Community, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Belgium, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Russia. 
(4) The MNEPR Framework Agreement establishes a multilateral legal framework for nuclear-related projects carried out by western countries in north-west Russia, and the Protocol on Claims, Legal Proceedings and Indemnification aims to settle issues of liability arising from activities undertaken in this context. 
(5) The MNEPR is designed to facilitate projects addressing problems regarding radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel and decommissioning of nuclear submarines and icebreakers in the Russian Federation. It is focusing initially on the north-west region, but the Framework Agreement states that the MNEPR may also apply to projects or any other form of cooperation in other areas of nuclear activities, including nuclear safety, if so agreed by the Parties concerned. 
(6) The present bilateral Memorandum of Understanding signed between the European Commission on behalf of the Communities and the Russian Federation in 1995, covering the implementation of the Technical Assistance Programmes in the Field of Nuclear Safety and which address nuclear liability issues will not be applicable to projects under the new Instrument for Nuclear Safety Cooperation. 
(7) All the EU Member States which have signed the Framework Agreement have deposited their ratification instruments with the Depositories, the last one being the United Kingdom which ratified the Framework Agreement in April 2006. 
(8) The European Atomic Energy Community is now in a position to conclude the MNEPR Framework Agreement, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: 
Sole Article 
1. The Framework Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation and the Protocol on Claims, Legal Proceedings and Indemnification to the Framework Agreement on a Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation are hereby concluded on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community. 
2. The texts of the Framework Agreement and of the Protocol are attached to this decision. 
This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 4 December 2006. 
For the Commission 
Benita Ferrero-Waldner 
Member of the Commission 
-------------------------------------------------- 
