96/669/CFSP: Joint Action of 22 November 1996 adopted by the Council on the basis of Article J.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the Great Lakes Region 
JOINT ACTION of 22 November 1996 adopted by the Council on the basis of Article J.3 of the Treaty on European Union on the Great Lakes Region (96/669/CFSP) 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Article J.3 thereof, 
Having regard to the conclusions of the European Council meeting in Florence on 21 and 22 June 1996, 
Having regard to the common position of 24 October 1994 on the objectives and priorities of the European Union vis-Ă -vis Rwanda, 
Having regard to the declarations adopted at its meeting on 28 October 1996 and at the special meeting of the Ministers for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid on 7 November 1996, devoted to the situation in eastern Zaire, 
Whereas on 9 and 15 November 1996, respectively, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolutions 1078 and 1080; whereas those Resolutions must be implemented; 
Recognizing the importance of the contribution of the African States to resolving the crisis in the Great Lakes Region; 
Whereas the European Union is already involved in the search for a solution to the crisis through the constructive action of its Special Envoy to the Great Lakes Region; 
Whereas the European Union must integrate its efforts to resolve this crisis with the action undertaken by the international community in accordance with the relevant Security Council Resolutions; 
Whereas the Council today adopted a concomitant Decision requesting the Western European Union to elaborate and implement the specific aspects of this joint action which have defence implications, 
HEREBY ADOPTS THIS JOINT ACTION: 
Article 1 
The European Union supports the urgent implementation of the relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions, with a view to enabling the delivery of humanitarian aid to eastern Zaire and facilitating the return by free consent of refugees to their country of origin and the return of displaced persons. The Community and its Member States will contribute to implementing those Resolutions in ways which they deem appropriate, and which they will coordinate in the manner set out in this Joint Action. The European Union reaffirms the priority which must be given to the return of the refugees to their country of origin and the need to overcome all obstacles to that end. It confirms its willingness to assist Rwanda to create the essential conditions for the return of the Rwandan refugees. 
Article 2 
In the context of support for United Nations coordination, the Council notes that the Commission will ensure coordination of the efforts of the Community and its Member States with a view to providing and delivering humanitarian aid to the refugees and displaced persons in eastern Zaire as a matter of urgency. 
Article 3 
Taking into account their voluntary contributions in humanitarian and military aid, the Member States will consult and cooperate within the Council on their voluntary contributions in support of African participation in the multinational force, in accordance with the relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions. 
Article 4 
As regards the financing of the Community contribution to the objectives of this Joint Action, the Council notes that the Commission will examine the possibilities and make appropriate proposals. 
Article 5 
The European Union will intensify its efforts to restore stability in the Great Lakes Region, in particular by encouraging the setting up of democratic institutions and respect for human rights. It reaffirms that the holding of an international conference on peace, security and development in the Great Lakes Region, under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, has a decisive role to play in finding a lasting settlement of the crisis in the region. It invites all the parties to redouble their efforts so that such a conference may be held. 
Article 6 
This Joint Action shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. 
Article 7 
This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal. 
Done at Brussels, 22 November 1996. 
For the Council 
The President 
J. BURTON 
