Council Joint Action 2006/122/CFSP of 20 February 2006 extending the mandate of the Special Representative of the European Union for the African Great Lakes Region 
Council Joint Action 2006/122/CFSP 
of 20 February 2006 
extending the mandate of the Special Representative of the European Union for the African Great Lakes Region 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Articles 14, 18(5) and 23(2) thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) The mandate of the Special Representative of the European Union (EUSR) for the African Great Lakes Region, as set out in Council Joint Action 2003/869/CFSP of 8 December 2003 amending and extending the mandate of the Special Representative of the European Union for the African Great Lakes Region [1], is due to expire on 28 February 2006. 
(2) On the basis of a review of Joint Action 2003/869/CFSP, the mandate of the EUSR should be extended for a 12-month period. 
(3) The EUSR will implement his mandate in the context of a situation which may deteriorate and could harm the objectives of the Common Foreign and Security Policy as set out in Article 11 of the Treaty, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS JOINT ACTION: 
Article 1 
The mandate of Mr Aldo AJELLO as the European Union Special Representative (EUSR) for the African Great Lakes Region is hereby extended until 28 February 2007. 
Article 2 
The mandate of the EUSR shall be based on the policy objectives of the European Union regarding the peace and transition process in the African Great Lakes Region. 
These objectives include: 
(a) active and efficient contribution of the European Union to a final settlement of the transition in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and to political and economic developments in Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda; 
(b) particular attention to the regional dimension of the developments in those countries; 
(c) ensurance of the continued presence of the European Union on the ground and in relevant international fora, staying in touch with key players and contribution to crisis management; 
(d) contribution to a consistent, sustainable and responsible policy of the European Union in the African Great Lakes Region. 
The EUSR shall support the work of the Secretary-General/High Representative (SG/HR) in the region. 
Article 3 
In order to achieve the policy objectives, the mandate of the EUSR shall be to: 
(a) establish and maintain close contact with all the Parties to the peace and transition process in the African Great Lakes Region, other countries of the region, the United States of America, other relevant countries, as well as the United Nations (UN) and other relevant international organisations, the African Union (AU) and sub-regional organisations and their representatives as well as other prominent regional leaders in order to work with them in strengthening the peace processes and peace agreements in the Region; 
(b) observe the peace and transition processes between the parties and offer the European Union’s advice and good offices as appropriate; 
(c) contribute, where requested, to the implementation of peace and cease fire agreements reached between the parties and engage with them diplomatically in the event of non-compliance with the terms of these agreements; 
(d) engage constructively with signatories to agreements within the framework of the peace processes in order to promote compliance with the basic norms of democracy and good governance, including respect for human rights and the rule of law; 
(e) contribute to the implementation of the EU Guidelines on Children and Armed Conflict; 
(f) contribute to and cooperate with the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the UN for the Great Lakes Region and the Special Envoy of the Chairperson of the AU on the preparation of a conference on peace, security, democracy and development in the Great Lakes Region; 
(g) report on the possibilities for European Union support to the peace and transition process and on the best way of pursuing European Union initiatives; 
(h) monitor actions by the parties to the conflicts, which might prejudice the outcome of the ongoing peace processes; 
(i) contribute to a better understanding of the European Union’s role among opinion leaders in the region; 
(j) provide advice and assistance, as required, for security sector reform in the DRC, in particular give political guidance to the Heads of the EU Police Mission (EUPOL Kinshasa) and of the EU Mission advising and assisting the Congolese authorities in the security sector reform (EUSEC RD Congo), in order to fulfil their duties at local level. 
Article 4 
1. The EUSR shall be responsible for the implementation of the mandate acting under the authority and operational direction of the SG/HR. The EUSR shall be accountable to the Commission for all expenditure. 
2. The Political and Security Committee (PSC) shall maintain a privileged link with the EUSR and shall be the primary point of contact with the Council. The PSC shall provide strategic guidance and political input to the EUSR within the framework of the mandate. 
Article 5 
1. The financial reference amount intended to cover the expenditure related to the mandate of the EUSR shall be EUR 820000. 
2. The expenditure financed by the amount stipulated in paragraph 1 shall be managed in accordance with the procedures and rules applicable to the general budget of the European Union with the exception that any pre-financing shall not remain the property of the Community. 
3. The management of the expenditure shall be subject to a contract between the EUSR and the Commission. Expenditure shall be eligible as from 1 March 2006. 
4. The Presidency, Commission, and/or Member States, as appropriate, shall provide logistical support in the region. 
Article 6 
1. Within the limits of his/her mandate and the corresponding financial means made available, the EUSR is responsible for constituting his/her team in consultation with the Presidency, assisted by the SG/HR, and in full association with the Commission. The EUSR shall inform the Presidency and the Commission of the final composition of his team. 
2. Member States and institutions of the European Union may propose the secondment of staff to work with the EUSR. The remuneration of personnel who might be seconded by a Member State or an institution of the European Union to the EUSR shall be covered by the Member State or the institution of the European Union concerned respectively. 
3. All A-type posts which are not covered by secondment shall be advertised as appropriate by the General Secretariat of the Council and also notified to Member States and institutions in order to recruit the best-qualified applicants. 
4. The privileges, immunities and further guarantees necessary for the completion and smooth functioning of the mission of the EUSR and the members of his staff shall be defined with the parties. Member States and the Commission shall grant all necessary support to such effect. 
Article 7 
As a rule, the EUSR shall report in person to the SG/HR and to the PSC and may report also to the relevant Working Group. Regular written reports shall be circulated to the SG/HR, the Council and the Commission. The EUSR may report to the General Affairs and External Relations Council on the recommendation of the SG/HR and the PSC. 
Article 8 
To ensure the consistency of the external action of the European Union, the activities of the EUSR shall be coordinated with those of the SG/HR, the Presidency and the Commission. The EUSR shall provide regular briefings to Member States’ missions and Commission delegations. In the field, close liaison shall be maintained with the Presidency, the Commission and Heads of Mission who shall make best efforts to assist the EUSR in the implementation of the mandate. The EUSR shall also liaise with other international and regional actors in the field. 
Article 9 
The implementation of this Joint Action and its consistency with other contributions from the European Union to the region shall be kept under regular review. The EUSR shall present to the SG/HR, Council and Commission a progress report before the end of June 2006 and a comprehensive mandate implementation report by mid-November 2006. These reports shall form a basis for evaluation of this Joint Action in the relevant working groups and by the PSC. In the context of overall priorities for deployment, the SG/HR shall make recommendations to the PSC concerning the Council’s decision on renewal, amendment or termination of the mandate. 
Article 10 
This Joint Action shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. 
Article 11 
This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
Done at Brussels, 20 February 2006. 
For the Council 
The President 
J. Pröll 
[1] OJ L 326, 13.12.2003, p. 37. Joint Action as last extended and amended by Joint Action 2005/586/CFSP (OJ L 199, 29.7.2005, p. 97). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
