63/688/EEC: Rules of the Advisory Committee on Vocational Training 
RULES of the Advisory Committee on Vocational Training (63/688/EEC) 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 128 thereof; 
Having regard to the Council Decision of 2 April 1963 (1) laying down general principles for implementing a common vocational training policy, and in particular the last subparagraph of the fourth principle thereof; 
Having obtained the Opinion of the Commission; 
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
1. The Advisory Committee on Vocational Training, set up in accordance with the terms of the fourth principle of the Council Decision of 2 April 1963 laying down general principles for implementing a common vocational training policy, shall consist of thirty-six members comprising, from each of the Member States, two representatives of the Government, two representatives of trades unions and two representatives of employers' organisations. 
If in any Member State it is necessary that representative institutions legally responsible for vocational training should be represented, then they shall be represented through whichever of the above categories they belong to. 
2. A representative from the High Authority of the European Coal and Steel Community and a representative from the Commission of the European Atomic Energy Community shall take part in the work of the Committee, without being entitled to vote. 
Article 2 
An alternate member shall be appointed by each Member State for each of the categories referred to in Article 1 (1). 
In the absence of one or both members from one of the categories, their alternate shall be automatically entitled to take part in the deliberations of the Committee. 
When both members are present, their alternate may attend the Committee's meetings. He may take part in the discussion when he is invited to do so by the Chairman, with the agreement of the Committee members to whom he is alternate member. In such case, he shall not vote. 
Article 3 
1. Only nationals of Member States may be appointed Committee members or alternate members. 
2. The duties of a member or alternate shall be incompatible with those of a member of an institution of the European Economic Community and with those of employees of the European Communities. 
Article 4 
1. Members and alternates shall be appointed by the Council on proposals from the governments of the Member States within the two months following the entry into force of these Rules. The Committee must consist of an equal number of representatives from the different sectors concerned. 
2. The list of Committee members and alternates shall be published for information by the Council in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
Article 5 
The term of office for members and alternates shall be two years. Their appointments may be renewed. (1) OJ No 63, 20.4.1963, p. 1338/63. 
Article 6 
In the event of the death or resignation of a member or alternate or where the necessary conditions for the performance of his duties are no longer fulfilled, the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 4, shall replace that member or alternate for the remainder of his term of office. 
Article 7 
The Committee shall be chaired by a member of the Commission or by his representative who shall not vote. 
Article 8 
The Committee shall meet at least twice a year. 
It shall be convened by its Chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of at least one-third of the members. 
The meetings of the Committee shall not be public. 
Article 9 
When convening a meeting, the Chairman shall fix the agenda. Other points falling within the competence of the Committee and proposed in the manner provided for in its rules of procedure shall be added to the agenda, if the majority of the members present are in agreement. 
Article 10 
The Committee shall submit to the Commission, at the latter's request, or on its own initiative, opinions based on questions of general importance or of principle concerning vocational training. The Commission shall forward all necessary documents to the Committee and shall inform the latter of its proposals. 
Article 11 
An opinion delivered by the Committee shall not be valid unless two-thirds of the members are present or represented. 
The opinions must state the reasons on which they are based ; they shall be delivered by a majority of votes validly cast, abstentions being considered as votes validly cast. Where appropriate, the opinions shall include the views expressed by the different Committee members, when the latter so request. 
Article 12 
The Chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of one or more members, may invite any persons or representatives of agencies having wide experience in the field of vocational training to take part in the meetings in an expert capacity. 
Any Committee member may be assisted at any time by a technical adviser, provided that the expenses connected with such assistance shall not be chargeable to the Commission. 
The experts and technical advisers shall not vote. 
Article 13 
The Committee, acting in the manner to be laid down in its rules of procedure, may form and set the tasks of internal working parties. The provisions of the foregoing Article shall apply to the working parties. 
Article 14 
The Committee shall draw up its rules of procedure specifying its working methods. 
The rules of procedure shall be approved by the Council, after receiving the opinion of the Commission. 
Article 15 
Secretarial services shall be provided for the Committee by the Commission. 
The latter shall place at the disposal of the Committee the premises and facilities necessary for its functions. 
Article 16 
The Committee's administrative expenditure shall be included in the budget of the European Economic Community in the section relating to the Commission. 
Done at Brussels, 18 December 1963. 
For the Council 
The President 
L. de BLOCK 
