Commission opinion of 14 November 2005 concerning the plan for the disposal of radioactive waste arising from the operation of the nuclear licensed site and the decommissioning of three nuclear reactors at Winfrith in Dorset in the United Kingdom, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty 
Commission opinion of 14 November 2005 concerning the plan for the disposal of radioactive waste arising from the operation of the nuclear licensed site and the decommissioning of three nuclear reactors at Winfrith in Dorset in the United Kingdom, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty 
(2005/C 282/07) 
(Only the English text is authentic) 
On 12 April 2005, the European Commission received from the Government of the United Kingdom, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty, General Data relating to the plan for the disposal of radioactive waste arising from the operation of the nuclear licensed site and the decommissioning of three nuclear reactors at Winfrith. 
On the basis of the General Data and additional information requested by the Commission on 5 July 2005 and provided by the Government of the United Kingdom on 18 July 2005, and following consultation with the Group of Experts, the Commission has drawn up the following opinion: 
1. The distance between the plant and the nearest point on the territory of another Member State, in this case France, is approximately 100 km. 
2. During normal operating conditions, the discharges of liquid and gaseous effluents are not liable to cause an exposure, significant from the point of view of health, of the population in other Member States. 
3. Low and intermediate level solid radioactive waste arising from the operations will be stored on-site. Following authorisation, low level solid radioactive waste will be transferred later to Drigg or to other disposal facilities. Non-radioactive solid waste and materials in compliance with clearance levels will be released from regulatory control for disposal as conventional waste or for recycling or reuse. This will be 
done in all cases in compliance with the criteria laid down in the Basic Safety Standards (Directive 96/29/Euratom). 
4. In the event of unplanned releases of radioactive effluents, which may follow an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, the doses likely to be received by the population in other Member States would not be significant from the point of view of health. 
In conclusion, the Commission is of the opinion that the implementation of the plan for the disposal of radioactive waste in whatever form arising from the operation of the nuclear licensed site and the decommissioning of three nuclear reactors at Winfrith in the United Kingdom, both in normal operation and in the event of an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, is not liable to result in radioactive contamination, significant from the point of view of health, of the water, soil or airspace of another Member State. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
