89/531/EEC: Council Decision of 25 September 1989 designating a reference laboratory for the identification of foot-and-mouth disease virus and determining the functions of that laboratory 
***** 
COUNCIL DECISION 
of 25 September 1989 
designating a reference laboratory for the identification of foot-and-mouth disease virus and determining the functions of that laboratory 
(89/531/EEC) 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, 
Having regard to Council Directive 85/511/EEC of 18 November 1985 introducing Community measures for the control of foot-and-mouth disease (1), and in particular Article 11 thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, 
Whereas the measures provided for in Article 11 of Directive 85/511/EEC require the designation of a reference laboratory for foot-and-mouth disease virus identification; whereas it is also necessary to determine the functions and duties of such a laboratory together with the detailed rules by which the coordination of standards and methods of diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease in each Member State shall be achieved; 
Whereas the reference laboratory will build up, store and supply when necessary to the national laboratories, diagnostic agents so that diagnosis in the said national laboratories is carried out in a uniform manner; whereas the reference laboratory must organize comparative trials, carry out further training of experts, and develop data and information systems for the use of the Commission and the Member States; 
Whereas the reference laboratory must operate under conditions of strict disease security; whereas the laboratory will formulate guidelines for the said security in the respective national laboratories; 
Whereas in respect of the reference laboratory a contract will be drawn up providing for appropriate financial support from the general budget of the European Communities, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: 
Article 1 
Liaison between the national laboratories in the field of diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease and the implementation of the reference functions for identification of the foot-and-mouth disease virus shall be carried out by 'The Institute for Animal Health, Pirbright Laboratory, England, hereinafter referred to as the 'reference laboratory'. 
Article 2 
The functions and duties of the reference laboratory designated in Article 1 shall be: 
1. to ensure liaison between the laboratories of the Member States with regard to the standards and methods of diagnosis of foot-and-mouth disease, and differential diagnosis, where necessary, in each Member State specifically by: 
(a) receiving field samples from Member States and certain third countries with a view to determining their identity; 
(b) typing and full strain characterization of foot-and-mouth disease virus from the samples referred to in point (a) and communicating the results of such investigations without delay to the Commission and the Member State concerned; 
(c) building up and maintaining an up-to-date collection of foot-and-mouth disease virus strains; 
(d) building up and maintaining a collection of specific sera against foot-and-mouth disease virus strains; 
2. to support the functions of national laboratories, and in particular by: 
(a) storing and supplying to the national laboratories cell lines for use in diagnosis together with virus and/or inactivated antigens standardized sera and other reference agents; 
(b) organizing and operating periodic comparative trials on foot-and-mouth disease diagnosis at Community level and the periodic transmission of the results of such trials to the Commission and the Member States; 
3. to provide information and carry out further training, in particular by: 
(a) gathering data and information on the methods of diagnosis and differential diagnosis used and the distribution of such information to the Commission and the Member States; 
(b) making and implementing the necessary arrangements for the further training of experts in laboratory diagnosis with a view to harmonizing diagnostic techniques; 
(c) organizing an annual meeting where representatives of the national laboratories may review diagnostic techniques and the progress of coordination. 
Article 3 
1. The reference laboratory shall operate according to recognized conditions of strict disease security as indicated in 'Minimum standards for laboratories working with foot-and-mouth disease virus in vitro and in vivo' - European Commission for the control of foot-and-mouth disease - 26th session, Rome, April 1985. 
2. The reference laboratory shall formulate and recommend the disease security measures to be taken by the national laboratories in matters of foot-and-mouth disease diagnosis, in accordance with the minimum standards referred to in paragraph 1. 
Article 4 
Appropriations to cover the expenditure incurred in connection with the activities set out in Articles 2 and 3 shall be included in the general budget of the European Communities (section 'Commission'). 
Article 5 
A contract shall be drawn up between the Commission and those responsible for the reference laboratory to ensure that the activities referred to in Articles 2 and 3 are carried out. 
Article 6 
The activities referred to in Articles 2 and 3 shall be restricted to a period of five years from the date of signature of the contract referred to in Article 5. 
Before expiry of that period, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall decide whether the said activities should be continued or whether this Decision should be amended. 
Article 7 
This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 25 September 1989. 
For the Council 
The President 
H. NALLET 
(1) OJ No L 315, 26. 11. 1985, p. 11. 
