Amendment by France of public service obligations in respect of scheduled air services between Lorient and Lyon (Text with EEA relevance) 
Amendment by France of public service obligations in respect of scheduled air services between Lorient and Lyon 
(2006/C 5/03) 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
1. Pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 of 23 July 1992 on access for Community air carriers to intra-Community air routes, France has decided to amend, from 1 July 2006, the public service obligations imposed on scheduled air services between Lorient (Lann Bihoué) and Lyon (Saint-Exupéry). These obligations replace those published in Official Journal of the European Communities C 25 of 29 January 2002. 
2. From 1 July 2006, the public service obligations in respect of scheduled air services between Lorient (Lann Bihoué) and Lyon-Saint-Exupéry are as follows: 
Minimum frequency 
The minimum level of service provided must be: 
- three return trips a day, morning and evening, from Monday to Friday inclusive, excluding public holidays, except during August and the two-week holiday period at the beginning and end of the year, when the minimum number of return trips is two a day; 
- one return trip on Saturday morning; 
- one return trip on Sunday evening; 
The services must be non-stop. 
Type of aircraft used 
The service must be operated with a pressurised aircraft having a seating capacity of at least 30. 
Timetables 
The timetables must allow passengers on business trips to make a round trip within the day and to spend at least eight hours in Lyon and seven hours in Lorient. 
Flight bookings 
Seats on these flights must be marketed using at least one computerised booking system. 
Continuity of service 
Except in cases of force majeure, the number of flights cancelled for reasons directly attributable to the carrier must not exceed 3 % of the number of flights scheduled in any year. The carrier must give six months' notice before discontinuing the services. 
Community carriers are hereby informed that the operation of air services without regard to the above-mentioned public service obligations may result in administrative and/or criminal penalties. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
