Notice concerning the anti-dumping measures in force in respect of imports into the Community of certain welded tubes and pipes, of iron or non-alloy steel originating, inter alia , in Turkey: change of the name of companies subject to an individual anti-dumping duty rate 
Notice concerning the anti-dumping measures in force in respect of imports into the Community of certain welded tubes and pipes, of iron or non-alloy steel originating, inter alia, in Turkey: change of the name of companies subject to an individual anti-dumping duty rate 
(2005/C 318/03) 
Imports of certain welded tubes and pipes, of iron or non-alloy steel originating, inter alia, in Turkey are subject to a definitive anti-dumping duty, imposed by Council Regulation (EC) No 1697/2002 [1]. 
Borusan Birslesik Boru Fabrikalari AS. and Mannesman Boru End端strisi AS., companies located in Turkey, whose exports to the Community of certain welded tubes and pipes, of iron or non-alloy steel are both subject to an individual anti-dumping duty rate of 5,0 % by the abovementioned Regulation, have informed the Commission that on 20 June 2005, as the result of a merger of the two companies, the remaining company, Borusan Birslesik Boru Fabrikalari AS., changes name to Borusan Mannesman Boru Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi. The registration of the change of name was made with the Istanbul Trade Register Office on 3 December 2004 by both companies. 
The companies argue that the change of name does not affect the right of the remaining company to benefit from the individual duty rate applicable to the companies under their previous names. 
The Commission has examined the information supplied and has concluded that the change of name in no way affects the findings of Council Regulation (EC) No 1697/2002. Therefore, the references to Borusan Birslesik Boru Fabrikalari AS. and Mannesman Boru End端strisi AS. should be read as Borusan Mannesman Boru Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi in Article 1(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 1697/2002. 
The Taric additional code A332 previously attributed to Borusan Birslesik Boru Fabrikalari AS. shall apply to Borusan Mannesman Boru Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi. The Taric additional code A333 previously attributed to Mannesman Boru End端strisi AS. shall no longer apply. 
[1] OJ L 259, 27.9.2002, p. 8. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
