Publication of an application pursuant to Article 6(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 510/2006 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs 
Publication of an application pursuant to Article 6(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 510/2006 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs 
(2006/C 128/05) 
This publication confers the right to object to the application pursuant to Article 7 of Council Regulation (EC) No 510/2006. Statements of objection must reach the Commission within six months from the date of this publication. 
SUMMARY 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 510/2006 
Application for registration according to Article 5 and Article 17(2) 
%quot%PAIO DE BEJA%quot% 
EC No: PT/0230/ 08.04.2002 
PDO ( ) PGI ( X ) 
This summary has been drawn up for information only. For full details, interested parties are invited to consult the full version of the product specification obtainable from the national authorities indicated in section 1 or from the European Commission [1]. 
1. Responsible department in the Member State 
Name: | Instituto de Desenvolvimento Rural e Hidráulica | 
Address: | Av. Afonso Costa, n.ο 3, P-1949-002 Lisboa | 
Tel.: | (351) 218 44 22 00 | 
Fax: | (351) 218 44 22 02 | 
e-mail: | idrha@idrha.min-agricultura.pt | 
2. Group 
Name: | Cooperativa Agrícola de Beja, CRL | 
Address: | Rua Mira Fernandes, n.o 2 | 
Apartado 14 | 
P-7801-901 Beja | 
Tel.: | (351) 284 32 20 51 | 
Fax: | (351) 284 32 28 97 | 
e-mail: | coopagri.beja@mail.telepac.pt | 
Composition: | Producers/processors ( X ) Other ( ) | 
3. Type of product 
Class 1.2 — Meat products 
4. Specification 
(summary of requirements under Article 4(2)) 
Name : %quot%PAIO DE BEJA%quot% 
Description : lightly oak-smoked sausage, made from the meat and hard fats obtained from cuts of meat from the carcasses of the Alentejana breed of pig. Salt, ground pepper, crushed dried garlic, caraway, paprika and pepper are added to the pieces of meat and fat. The casing used is naturally salted hog casing. It is a large sausage, which has a straight cylindrical section, measuring between 12 and 20 cm in length and between 6 and 15 cm in diameter. It has a bright and slightly rough exterior, and is reddish and white in colour, and has a slightly firm to firm consistency. It is tightened by twisting it, and tied with cotton twine at both ends. When the sausage is cut, the meat looks reddish to pink with white specks and the stuffing appears perfectly homogenous. The fat is pearly, shiny, aromatic, and has a pleasant taste. The sausage has a pleasant, mild, lightly salted and sometimes slightly spicy taste. It has a pleasant, slightly smoky aroma. 
Geographical area : The geographical production area for raw materials which are used in the preparation of the Paio de Beja shall remain limited to the municipalities of Abrantes, Alandroal, Alcácer do Sal (except the freguesia of Santa Maria do Castelo), Alcoutim, Aljezur (the freguesias of Odeceixe, Bordeira, Rogil and Aljezur), Aljustrel, Almodôvar, Alter do Chão, Alvito, Arraiolos, Arronches, Avis, Barrancos, Beja, Borba, Campo Maior, Castelo Branco, Castelo de Vide, Castro Marim (the freguesias of Odeleite and Azinhal), Castro Verde, Chamusca, Coruche, Crato, Cuba, Elvas (except the freguesia of Caia and S. Pedro), Estremoz, Évora, Ferreira do Alentejo, Fronteira, Gavião, Grândola (except the freguesia of Melides), Idanha-a-Nova, Lagos (the freguesia of Bensafrim), Loulé (the freguesias of Ameixial, Salir, Alte, Benafim and Querença), Marvão. Mértola, Monchique (the freguesias of Monchique, Marmelete amd Alferce), Monforte, Montemor-o-Novo, Mora, Moura, Mourão, Nisa, Odemira (except the freguesias of Vila Nova de Mil Fontes and S. Teotónio), Ourique, Penamacor, Ponte de Sôr, Portalegre, Portel, Redondo, Reguengos de Monsaraz, Sabugal, Santiago do Cacém (except the freguesia of Santo André), Sardoal, São Brás de Alportel, Serpa, Sines, Silves (the freguesias of S. Marcos, S. Bartolomeu de Messines and Silves), Sousel, Tavira, (the freguesia of Cachopo), Vendas Novas, Viana do Alentejo, Vidigueira, Vila Velha de Ródão and Vila Viçosa, where the Montado agri-silvi-pastoral systems are located. Given the particular weather conditions, the local production methods employed and the product's organoleptic characteristics, the geographical area where the sausage is processed, matured, cut and packaged is confined to the municipality of Beja. 
Proof of origin : Paio de Beja may only be produced in duly licensed processing plants, located in the geographical area where the sausage is processed and authorised by the Group. The raw material comes from Alentejano pigs on livestock farms with oak groves compatible with extensive or semi-extensive farming systems, as the animals are usually reared outdoors. The animals are registered as Alentejano pigs in the herd-book. Both the slaughtering of the pigs, and the recovery of meat may be carried out in licensed plants within the geographical area where the sausage is processed. Agricultural farms, slaughterhouses, cutting plants and production plants of Paio de Beja are duly registered in the Group, and are subject to independent control. This system allows full traceability of the product, enabling random checks to be carried out to determine the product's origin, from the agricultural farm to each piece sold. Each piece shall always bear a numbered certification mark. 
Method of production : Obtained from cuts of meat from the loin, leg and shoulder and fat from Alentejano pigs, which are minced either mechanically or manually. The proportion of lean meat content shall be 70-90 % and the proportion of fat content shall be 10-30 %. Once the meat has been minced, it is mixed in a container with the fat and seasoning, which has been previously diluted in water, which is a typical characteristic of this region. The mass is left for 1 to 2 days in a refrigeration room where the temperature does not exceed 10o C and the humidity level is approximately 80/90 %. The mixture is then put into the hog casings which have been preserved in brine, ensuring that the sausages are tightly filled and tied. Once the sausages have been stuffed they are smoked. This process lasts a minimum of 3 days and a maximum of 12 days, (5 to 10 days in summer and 8 to 12 days in winter). The sausage is placed on the market as a whole sausage, or in pieces or slices, and is always pre-packed at the place of origin. Special material, which is innocuous and inert when it comes into contact with the product, is used for its packaging. The product may be packed in a normal or controlled atmosphere or in a vacuum. Cutting and packing can only be carried out in the geographical processing. area so as to ensure traceability and control and to prevent any change to the product's taste and microbiological characteristics 
Link : Human consumption of pork meat has been found in remains in the Baixo Alentejo region dating back to the Bronze Age, principally next to dolmens and other megalithic monuments. The consumption of this meat is also reported in the region in the 4th century B.C., during the period of Celtic rule. These peoples made an important contribution to the diversification of the eating habits of the Baixo Alentejo region. Later, the consumption of pork meat increased following the Roman tradition, when the region was ruled by the Romans. These colonisers encountered innovative culinary techniques: the pigs were fed acorns and local aromatic plants were used in the production of food. The first millennium A.D. is marked by the arrival of Muslim invaders. However, the rules of the Koran did not have any influence on local customs. The main legacy of this period is the use of spices in local cooking. Throughout the ages there are numerous references to pigs being fed acorns from oak groves. This was the most consumed type of meat in the region, either fresh or preserved. The animals lived in extensive farms, and sometimes in community pigsties called %quot%adúas%quot%, which until recently could still be found in the Alentejo region. Thus, pork has always had a unique place in Alentejo regional cuisine, from ancient times up to the present day. The art of sausage making, of which the Paio de Beja is an important product, developed as a result of the need to preserve pork meat throughout the year. In conclusion, 3 basic elements link the Paio de Beja to the region: the meat used comes from a breed of animal peculiar to the region; this animal is reared on oak groves in the region; the meat has a specific flavour, with seasoning and sensory characteristics and a unique appearance which differs from other sausage meat products from the Alentejo region. 
Name: | Certialentejo — Certificação de Produtos Agrícolas, LDA | 
Address: | Av. General Humberto Delgado, N.o 34 1.a Esq | 
P-7000-900 Évora | 
Tel.: | (351) 266 76 95 64 | 
Fax: | (351) 266 76 95 66 | 
e-mail: | certialentejo@net.sapo.pt | 
Inspection body : 
The %quot%Certialentejo%quot% body has been recognised as complying with the requirements of Standard 45011:2001 
Labelling : It is compulsory for the labelling to include the following the wording: %quot%PAIO de BEJA — Indicação Geográfica Protegida%quot% and the Community's own logo and the certification mark, which must indicate the name of the product, the control body and the serial number (numeric or alphanumeric code ensuring the product's traceability). 
National requirements : — 
[1] European Commission, Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, Agricultural Product Quality Policy, B-1049 Brussels. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
