Opinion of the Advisory Committee on restrictive practices and dominant positions given at its 385th meeting on 29 November 2004 concerning a preliminary draft decision in Case COMP/C.37.533 Choline chloride 
Opinion of the Advisory Committee on restrictive practices and dominant positions given at its 385th meeting on 29 November 2004 concerning a preliminary draft decision in Case COMP/C.37.533 â&#x20AC;&#x201D; Choline chloride 
(2005/C 180/04) 
1. The Advisory Committee agrees with the Commission's assessment of the product and the geographic relevant markets contained in the draft decision. 
2. The Advisory Committee agrees with the analysis of the market's structure made by the Commission. 
3. The Advisory Committee agrees with the legal assessment made by the Commission, notably with the legal qualification of the facts as an agreement and/or concerted practice within the meaning of Article 81(1) of the EC Treaty and Article 53(1) of the EEA Agreement. 
4. The Advisory Committee agrees with the Commission's view that the cartel subject to this proceeding must be considered as a single and continuous infringement. 
5. The Advisory Committee agrees with the Commission, that the agreement and/or concerted practice had as object and/or as effect a restriction of competition. 
6. The Advisory Committee agrees with the Commission that the agreement and/or concerted practice had appreciably affected trade between Member States. 
7. The Advisory Committee agrees with the Commission that fines should be imposed on the following companies which took part in the cartel: 
(a) Akzo Nobel N.V., Akzo Nobel Netherlands B.V., Akzo Nobel Chemicals International B.V., Akzo Nobel Chemicals B.V. and Akzo Nobel Functional Chemicals B.V., jointly and severally; 
(b) BASF A.G.; 
(c) UCB S.A. 
8. The Advisory Committee agrees with the method of calculation of the fines regarding the: 
(a) gravity of the infringement, including differential treatment; 
(b) duration of the infringement; 
(c) attenuating and aggravating circumstances; 
(d) applicability of the Commission Notice on the non-imposition or reduction of fines. 
9. The Advisory Committee recommends the publication of its opinion in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
10. The Advisory Committee asks the Commission to take into account all the other points raised during the discussion. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
