Commission opinion of 23 May 2006 concerning the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Comurhex plant located in Pierrelatte in France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty 
Commission opinion of 23 May 2006 concerning the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Comurhex plant located in Pierrelatte in France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty 
(2006/C 123/02) 
(Only the French text is authentic) 
On 8 November 2005, the European Commission received from the Government of France, in accordance with Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty, General Data relating to the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste from the Comurhex plant. 
On the basis of the General Data and following consultation with the Group of Experts, the Commission has drawn up the following opinion: 
1. The distance between the plant and the nearest point on the territory of another Member State, in this case Italy, is approximately 170 km. 
2. The modification envisaged will result in an overall increase of the limits for airborne and liquid effluent discharges in order to allow for tritium and carbon 14. 
3. Under normal operation, the modification envisaged will not cause an exposure that is significant from the point of view of health for the population of another Member State. 
4. In the event of unplanned releases of radioactive effluents resulting from an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, the planned modification will not give rise to any significant effect from the point of view of health on the population of another Member State. 
In conclusion, the Commission is of the opinion that the implementation of the modified plan for the disposal of radioactive waste in whatever form from the Comurhex plant in Pierrelatte in France, both in normal operation and in the event of an accident of the type and magnitude considered in the General Data, is not liable to result in radioactive contamination, significant from the point of view of health, of the water, soil or airspace of another Member State. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
