Amended proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of THE Council establishing an integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning Adaptation following the agreement of 17 May 2006 on the Financial Framework 2007-2013 (presented by the Commission pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty) /* COM/2006/0236 final - COD 2004/0153 */ 
[pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | 
Brussels, 24.5.2006 
COM(2006) 236 final 
2004/0153 (COD) 
Amended proposal for a 
DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
establishing an integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning 
Adaptation following the agreement of 17 May 2006 on the Financial Framework 2007-2013 
(presented by the Commission pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty) 
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 
1. HISTORY OF THE FILE 
1.1. Transmission of the Commission’s proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council [COM(2004) 474] in accordance with Treaty Article 175(1): 15 July 2004. 
Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee: 10 February 2005 (CES0139/2005). 
Opinion of the Committee of the Regions: 23 February 2005 (CDR0258/2004). 
Legislative Opinion (First Reading) of the European Parliament: 25 October 2005 (T6-0395/2005) 
Partial Political Agreement of the Council: 15 November 2005 (14690/05) 
2. OBJECTIVES OF THE COMMISSION’S PROPOSAL 
2.1. Based on Articles 149 and 150 of the Treaty, the proposal was to establish a new integrated Lifelong Learning Programme 2007-2013, to replace the existing Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci, eLearning, and related programmes, which expire at the end of 2006. 
2.2. The Lifelong Learning Programme will comprise four specific programmes: Comenius, for general education activities concerning schools up to and including upper secondary level; Erasmus, for education and advanced training activities at higher education level; Leonardo da Vinci, for all other aspects of vocational education and training; and Grundtvig for adult education. In addition, the proposal incorporates a “transversal” programme incorporating four key activities, to cover the policy issues outlined above, and to make specific provision for language learning and ICT-related activity where these fall outside the specific programmes; and for a more substantial dissemination activity; and a Jean Monnet programme to support action related to European integration and European institutions and associations in education and training. 
2.3. The proposal addresses important needs concerning the modernisation and adaptation of Member State education and training systems, particularly in the context of the strategic Lisbon goals, and brings European added value directly to individual citizens participating in its mobility and other cooperation actions. 
3. BUDGET 
3.1. The original budget proposed was EUR 13.6 billion (EUR 12.0 billion in 2004 prices), which would have funded the achievement of a series of targets to maximise the beneficial impact of European cooperation in the field, and the introduction of a series of new activities such as mobility grants for EU students on Erasmus-Mundus Joint Masters courses. Following the Interinstitutional Agreement on the financial framework 2007-2013, the programme budget has been reduced to EUR 6.97 billion (EUR 6.2 billion in 2004 prices). The quantified targets set out in the Decision have been amended accordingly. 
3.2. The funds available are insufficient to permit many new activities included in the Commission proposal to be introduced, with the exception of mobility for upper-secondary pupils in Comenius, which is planned to be launched on a relatively small scale during the lifetime of the new programme, and the assistantships and adult learner mobility actions in Grundtvig. As a complement to this, the Commission proposes also to introduce the “Comenius-Regio” scheme propsed by the European Parliament, another relatively small-scale action aimed at reinforcing cross-border teacher cooperation in frontier regions. The Commission has, however, retained references in the programme Decision to all the new activities originally proposed, although without any corresponding budget allocation at this stage, to leave open the possibility for them to be introduced before 2013 should funds be available, either through re-allocations of the existing programme budget, or following a revision of the overall financial framework. 
3.3. The minimum allocations set out in Point B.10 of the Annex to the Decision for each of the four sectoral programmes have also had to be revised to reflect the reduction in the budget envelope. 
4. OVERVIEW OF AMENDMENTS 
4.1. European Parliament amendments 
4.1.1. The revised proposal incorporates either verbatim or in substance 42 of the 71 amendments voted by the European Parliament at First Reading. The great majority of these amendments improve the drafting of the draft Decision, by incorporating references to relevant policies or processes. 
4.1.2. The following accepted amendments make more substantial changes relating directly to the content or implementation of the programme: 
Amendments 47 and 48: introduce the new “Comenius-Regio” action. 
Amendment 64: introduces the European Agency for Development in Special Needs Education into the list of designated institutions to receive operating grants. This agency fulfils the criteria adopted by the Commission for the construction of the list: institutions in the field of the programme which have intergovernmental systems of governance and/or funding. 
Amendments 67, 68, 69 and 71: these are identical with amendments introduced in the Council’s Partial Political Agreement, and have the effect of interpreting the Financial Regulation to permit simpler and more flexible programme implementation arrangements than are possible under the existing generation of Community programmes in particular as suggested by the Commission at the time of its original proposal[1]. 
4.2. Council amendments 
4.2.1. The Commission’s revised proposal follows the text of the Council’s Partial Political Agreement, except: 
(1) for Recitals 23, 24 and 25 and Article 14, Article 17(2)(a) and (b), Article 19, Article 21(2)(a) and (b), Article 23, Article 25(2)(a) and (b), Article 27, Article 29(2)(a) and (b), Article 31, Article 37 and Point B.10 of the Annex. These provisions refer directly or indirectly to the programme budget envelope, and were excluded from the Council’s text pending agreement on the financial framework for the EU budget; 
(2) for Amendments 47, 48 and 64 of the European Parliament, accepted by the Commission, which introduce the Comenius-Regio action and the Agency for Development in Special Needs Education. 
4.2.2. The Commission proposal contains two substantive amendments included in the Council’s text: 
(1) the re-introduction in Article 9 of consultation of the programme committee on individual selection decisions for projects and networks where the grant proposed exceeds EUR 1 million, and for the “Policy Development” Key Activity of the Transversal Programme; and 
(2) the extension of a decentralised project approach from Leonardo da Vinci pilot projects, to Comenius, Erasmus and Grundtvig in Articles 18(1)(c), 22(1)(b) and 30(1)(c). 
4.2.3. In line with the Council’s text, the Commission’s revised proposal replaces the term “integrated programme” with “Lifelong Learning Programme” throughout, and replaces the term “specific programmes” with “sub-programmes” to refer to the component programmes within it. Following the Council’s text, it also makes a number of structural changes which clarify the architecture of the Decision: 
(1) former Article 3 “Definitions” (new Article 2) is moved to come before former Article 2 “Specific Programmes” (now Article 3 “Sub-Programmes”); 
(2) the specific objectives relating to each sub-programme are moved from former Article 2 to the respective “Objectives” Articles of each sub-programme, where they precede the operational objectives; 
(3) Article 9 covers the “implementing measures” for the entire programme and its sub-programmes, regrouping material previously included in additional “implementing measures” Articles under each sub-programme, which have consequently been removed; 
(4) former Article 13 “Joint Actions” has been deleted, and replaced by specific reference in new Article 13 to complementarity with relevant Community policies. 
4.3. Commission amendments 
4.3.1. Recital 19 is new, and refers to a new and significantly simpler system for supporting National Agency operating costs, through lump sum funding included in the agreement distributing the decentralised funds, rather than as a series of separate operating grant agreements. 
4.3.2. The operation of a fully decentralised project management system in the four sectoral sub-programmes, as set out in the Council text, would require a budget increase of at least an additional EUR 500 million, because each Member State would need to receive a budget allocation that made it worthwhile organising a call for proposals and selection – ie they would need to have enough money to be able to fund a reasonable number of projects at the end of the process. Given the substantial budget reduction, this level of funding is available only in Leonardo, so it is unavoidable that the project management approach has to be amended. The Commission has therefore revised the “National Agency 2” procedure set out in Point A.1.2 of the Annex, whereby the application and selection process is managed centrally, with involvement of Member State experts at the quality evaluation stage, and the funds are then devolved to the National Agencies of the selected project coordinators, who manage the remainder of the process. 
4.3.3. The Commission has introduced a new Point B.5 into the Annex, permitting the use of partnership grant agreements, which could be selected and funded for a four-year period, subject to a lightweight renewal procedure. 
5. AMENDED PROPOSAL 
5.1. In accordance with Article 250(2) of the Treaty, the Commission modifies its proposal as follows: 
2004/0153 (COD) 
ProposalAmended proposal for a 
DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
establishing an integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 149(4) and 150(4) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[2], 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[3], 
Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[4], 
Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty[5], 
Whereas: 
(1) Council Decision No 382/1999/EC[6] established the second phase of the Community vocational training action programme ‘Leonardo da Vinci’. 
(2) Decision No 253/2000/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council[7] established the second phase of the Community action programme in the field of education ‘Socrates’. 
(3) Decision No 2318/2003/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council[8] established a multi-annual programme for the effective integration of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) in education and training systems in Europe (eLearning programme). 
(4) Decision No 791/2004/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council[9] established a Community action programme to promote bodies active at European level in the field of education and training and to support specific activities in this field. 
(5) Decision No 2241/2004/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council[10] established a single framework for the transparency of qualifications and competences (Europass). 
(6) Decision No 2317/2003/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council [11] established a programme for the enhancement of quality in higher education and the promotion of intercultural understanding through cooperation with third countries (Erasmus Mundus) (2004-2008). 
(67) The Bologna Declaration, signed by the Ministers for Education of 29 European countries on 19 June 1999, established an intergovernmental process aimed at creating a ‘European Area of Higher Education’ by 2010, which requires support at Community level. 
(78) The special meeting of the European Council in Lisbon on 23-24 March 2000 set a strategic goal for the European Union to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, and invited the Education Council to undertake a general reflection on the concrete future objectives of education systems, focusing on common concerns and priorities while respecting national diversity. 
(9) An advanced knowledge society is the key to higher growth and employment rates. Education and training are essential priorities for the European Union in order to achieve the Lisbon goals. 
(810) On 12 February 2001 the Council adopted a report on the concrete future objectives of education and training systems. On 14 June 2002 it subsequently adopted a detailed work programme on the follow-up of these objectives, requiring support at Community level. 
(911) The meeting of the European Council in Göteborg on 15-16 June 2001 agreed a strategy for sustainable development and added an environmental dimension to the Lisbon process for employment, economic reform and social cohesion. 
(1012) The meeting of the European Council in Barcelona on 15-16 March 2002 set the objective of making European Union education and training systems a world quality reference by 2010, and called for action to improve the mastery of basic skills, in particular by teaching at least two foreign languages from a very early age. 
(1113) The Commission Communication[12] and the Council Resolution[13] on lifelong learning affirm that lifelong learning should be enhanced by actions and policies developed within the framework of Community programmes in this field. 
(1214) The Council Resolution of 19 December 2002 on the promotion of enhanced European cooperation in vocational education and training[14] established a process of enhanced European cooperation in vocational education and training, requiring support at Community level. The Copenhagen Declaration, agreed by the Ministers for Education of 31 European countries on 30 November 2002, associated the social partners and the candidate countries towith this process. 
(1315) The Communication from the Commission on the Action Plan for skills and mobility[15] noted the continuing need for action at European level to improve the recognition of education and training qualifications. 
(1416) The Communication from the Commission on the Action Plan promoting language learning and linguistic diversity[16] set out actions to be taken at European level during the period 2004-2006 and requires follow-up action. 
(17) Promoting the teaching and learning of languages and linguistic diversity, including the official languages of the Community and its regional and minority languages, should be a priority of Community action in the field of education and training. Such action is particularly important in border regions of the Member States in relation to the languages used in neighbouring regions of other Member States. 
(1518) The interim evaluation reports of the existing Socrates and Leonardo da Vinci programmes and the public consultation on the future of Community activity in education and training revealed a strong and in some respects growing need for continuing cooperation and mobility in these fields at European level. They emphasised the importance of creating closer links between Community programmes and policy developments in education and training, expressed the wish that Community action should be structured so as to respond better to the lifelong learning paradigm, and pressed for a simpler, more user-friendly and more flexible approach to implementing such action. 
(19) Following the principle of sound financial management, the implementation of the programme may be simplified by recourse to lump sum funding, in respect either of support awarded to programme participants or of Community support for the structures established at national level for the administration of the programme. 
(1620) Significant advantages would accrue from integrating Community support for trans-national cooperation and mobility in the fields of education and training into a single programme, which would permit greater synergies between the different fields of action, and offer more capacity to support developments in lifelong learning, and more coherent, streamlined and efficient modes of administration. A single Programme would also encourage better cooperation between the various levels of education and training. 
(1721) An IntegratedA Lifelong Learning Programme should therefore be established to contribute through lifelong learning to the development of the European Union as an advanced knowledge society, with sustainable economic development, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. 
(1822) Given the specificities of the schools, higher education, vocational training and adult education sectors, and the consequent need for Community action to be based on objectives, forms of action and organisational structures tailored to them, it is appropriate to retain individual programmes within the framework of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme targeted at each of these four sectors, while maximising the coherence and commonality between them. 
(1923) In its Communication “Building our common Future: Policy challenges and Budgetary means of the Enlarged Union 2007-2013”[17], the Commission set out a sequence of quantified targets to be achieved by the new generation of Community education and training programmes, which require a significant increase in mobility and partnership actions. 
(2024) Given the demonstrated beneficial impacts of trans-national mobility on individuals and on education and training systems, the high volume of unfulfilled demand for mobility in all sectors, and its importance in the context of the Lisbon target, it is necessary to increase substantially the volume of support for trans-national mobility in the four sectoral sub-programmes. 
(25) The standard Erasmus student mobility grant has remained at an average of about EUR 150 per month since 1993. In real terms, this represents a 25% cut in its value, and acts as an ever greater obstacle to participation of less privileged students in the Programme. In order to cover more adequately the real additional costs borne by students studying abroad, the standard student mobility grant should be maintained at an average of EUR 200 per month in real terms for the duration of the programme. 
(26) More provision should be made for the mobility needs of individual school pupils at secondary level, hitherto not covered by Community Programmes, by introducing a new type of mobility action into the Comenius programme. The opportunities offered by individual teacher mobility for the development of long-term cooperation between schools in neighbouring regions should also be exploited more fully. 
(27) Small- and medium-sized enterprises play an important role in the European economy. Hitherto, however, participation by such enterprises in the Leonardo Programme has been limited. Steps should be taken to improve the attractiveness of Community action to such enterprises, in particular by ensuring that more mobility opportunities are available for apprentices. Suitable arrangements, analogous to those that exist under Erasmus, should be made for the recognition of the outcomes of such mobility. 
(28) Given the particular educational challenges facing the children of occupational travellers and mobile workers in Europe, full use should be made of the opportunities available under the Comenius Programme to support transnational activities targeted at their needs. 
(29) Increased mobility throughout Europe must be accompanied by constantly higher standards. 
(2130) In order to respond to the increased need to support activities at European level designed to achieve these policy objectives, to provide a means of supporting trans-sectoral activity in the fields of languages and ICT, and to strengthen the dissemination and exploitation of results of the programme, it is appropriate to complement the four sectoral sub-programmes with a transversal programme. 
(2231) In order to respond to the increasing need for knowledge and dialogue on the European integration process and its development, it is important to stimulate excellence in teaching, research and reflection in this field by supporting higher education institutions specialising in the study of the European integration process, European associations in the fields of education and training and the Jean Monnet Action. 
(2332) It is necessary to provide sufficient flexibility in the formulation of this Decision to allow for appropriate adjustments in the actions of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme to respond to changing needs during the period 2007 to 2013, and to avoid the inappropriately detailed provisions of previous phases of Socrates and Leonardo da Vinci. 
(2433) In all its activities, the Community must eliminate inequalities, and promote equality, between men and women, as provided for in Article 3 of the Treaty. 
(2534) Further to Article 151 of the Treaty, the Community must take cultural aspects into account in its action under other provisions of the Treaty, in particular in order to respect and to promote the diversity of its cultures. Particular attention should be paid to the synergy between culture, education and training. Intercultural dialogue should also be encouraged. 
(2635) There is a need to promote active citizenship and respect for human rights and democracy, and to step up the fight against exclusion in all its forms, including racism and xenophobia. 
(2736) The special learning needs of people with disabilities should be actively addressed. There is a need to widen access to those from disadvantaged groups and to address actively the special learning needs of those with disabilities, in the implementation of all parts of the Programme, including through the use of higher grants to reflect the additional costs of disabled participants, and the provision of support for the learning and use of sign languages and braille. 
(37) Note should be taken of the achievements of the European Year of Education through Sport (2004) and of the potential educational benefits of cooperation between educational institutions and sports organisations that the Year highlighted. 
(2838) The candidate countries for membership of the European Union and the EFTA countries which are members of the EEA may participate in Community programmes in accordance with agreements to be signed between the Community and these countries. 
(2939) The European Council in Thessaloniki on 19 and 20 June 2003 approved the Council conclusions of 16 June on the Western Balkans, including its annex “The Thessaloniki Agenda for the Western Balkans: moving towards European integration”, which provides that Community programmes should be opened to the Stabilisation and Association Process countries on the basis of framework agreements to be signed between the Community and those countries. 
(3040) The Community and the Swiss Confederation have declared their intention of undertaking negotiations to conclude agreements in areas of common interest such as Community education, training and youth programmes. 
(3141) The IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme should be regularly monitored and evaluated in cooperation between the Commission and the Member States in order to allow for readjustments, particularly with respect to the priorities for implementing the measures. The evaluation should include an external evaluation to be conducted by independent, impartial bodies. 
(3242) Resolution 2000/2315(INI) of the European Parliament on the implementation of the Socrates programme[18] drew attention to the disproportionately onerous administrative procedures for grant applicants under the second phase of the programme. 
(3343) Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities[19] and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002[20], which safeguard the Community’s financial interests, have to be applied taking into account the principles of simplicity and consistency in the choice of budgetary instruments, a limitation on the number of cases where the Commission retains direct responsibility for their implementation and management, and the required proportionality between the amount of resources and the administrative burden related to their use. 
(44) Radical administrative simplification of application procedures is essential for successful implementation of the Programme. Administrative and accounting requirements should be proportional to the size of the grant. 
(3445) Appropriate measures should also be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and the necessary steps should be taken to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used. 
(46) It is appropriate to ensure a correct closure of the Programme in particular regarding the continuation of multi-annual arrangements for its management, such as the financing of technical and administrative assistance. As of 1 January 2014, the technical and administrative assistance will ensure, if necessary, the management of actions not yet finalised by the end of 2013, including monitoring and audit actions. 
(3547) Since the objectives of the proposed action concerning the contribution of European cooperation to quality education and training cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States because of the need for multilateral partnerships, trans-national mobility and Community-wide exchanges of information, and can therefore, by reason of the nature of the actions and measures necessary, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Decision does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives. 
(3648) This Decision establishes a financial frameworkbudget for the entire duration of the programme, which is, to be the principal point of reference for the budgetary authority, the principal point of reference, within the meaning of point 3337 of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 May 1999Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvementsound financial management of the budgetary procedure [21] . 
(3749) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission[22]. 
HAVE DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
TITLE I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Chapter I The IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme 
Article 1 
Establishment of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme 
1. This Decision establishes an integrated programme for Community action in the field of lifelong learning, hereinafter referred to as ‘the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme’. 
2. The general objective of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme is to contribute through lifelong learning to the development of the Community as an advanced knowledge society, with sustainable economic development, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, while ensuring good protection of the environment for future generations. In particular, it aims to foster interchange, cooperation and mobility between education and training systems within the Community so that they become a world quality reference. 
3. The IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme shall have the following specific objectives: 
1. to contribute to the development of quality lifelong learning and to promote high performance, innovation and a European dimension in systems and practices in the field; 
2. to support the realisation of a European area for lifelong learning; 
3. to help improve the quality, attractiveness and accessibility of the opportunities for lifelong learning available within Member States; 
4. to reinforce the contribution of lifelong learning to personal fulfilment, social cohesion, active citizenship, intercultural dialogue, gender equality and the participation of people with special needspersonal fulfilment; 
5. to help promote creativity, competitiveness, employability and the growth of an entrepreneurial spirit; 
6. to contribute to increased participation in lifelong learning by people of all ages, including those with special needs and disadvantaged groups, regardless of their socio-economic background; 
7. to promote language learning and linguistic diversity; 
8. to support the development of innovative ICT-based content, services, pedagogies and practice for lifelong learning; 
9. to reinforce the role of lifelong learning in creating a sense of European citizenship based on understanding and respect for human rights and democracy, and encouraging tolerance and respect for other peoples and cultures; 
10. to promote co-operation in quality assurance in all sectors of education and training in Europe; 
11. to exploit encourage the best use of results, innovative products and processes and to exchange good practice in the fields covered by the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, in order to improve the quality of education and training. 
4. In accordance with the administrative provisions set out in the Annex, the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme shall support and supplement action taken by the Member States, while fully respecting their responsibility for the content of education and training systems and their cultural and linguistic diversity. 
5. As set out in Article 2 3 , the objectives of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme shall be pursued through the implementation of four sectoral programmes, one transversal programme, and the Jean Monnet programme, hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘the Specificsub-programmes’. 
6. This Decision shall be implemented over the period from 1 January 2007 until 31 December 2013. However, preparatory measures, including decisions by the Commission in accordance with Article 9, may be implemented as from the entry into force of this Decision. 
7. The provisions of this Decision relating to the Integrated Programme shall also govern the Specific Programmes, to which specific provisions shall also apply. 
Article 32 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 
1. “pre-school” means organised educational activity undertaken before the start of obligatory primary schooling; 
2. “pupil” means a person enrolled in a learning capacity at a school; 
3. “school” means all types of institutions providing general (nursery or other pre-school, primary or secondary), vocational and technical education and, exceptionally, in the case of measures to promote language learning, non-school institutions providing apprenticeship training; 
4. “teachers/educational staff” means persons who, through their duties, are involved directly in the educationaleducation process in the Member States; 
5. “trainers” mean persons who, through their duties, are involved directly in the vocational education and training process in the Member States; 
56. “student” means a person registered in a higher education institution, whatever their field of study, in order to follow higher education studies leading to a recognised degree or diplomaother recognised tertiary level qualification, up to and including the level of doctorate; 
7. “trainee” means a person undergoing vocational training, either within a training institution or training organisation or at the workplace; 
8. “adult learner” means a learner participating in adult education; 
9. “people in the labour market” means workers, the self-employed or people available for employment; 
610. “higher education institution” means: 
12. any type of higher education institution, according toin accordance with national legislation or practice, which offers qualifications or diplomas at that levelrecognised degrees or other recognised tertiary level qualifications, whatever such establishments may be called in the Member States; 
13. any institution providing advanced vocational training at International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED) levels 5 or 6, in accordance with national legislation or practice, which offers vocational education or training at tertiary level; 
711. “Joint Masters” means Masters courses in higher education that: 
14. involve a minimum of three higher education institutions from three different Member States; 
15. implement a study programme which involves a period of study in at least two of those three institutions; 
16. have built-in mechanisms for the recognition of periods of study undertaken in partner institutions based on, or compatible with, the European credit transfer system; 
17. result in the awarding of joint, double or multiple degrees, recognised or accredited by the Member States, from the participating institutions; 
8. “initial vocational training” means any form of initial vocational training, including technical and vocational teaching, apprenticeship and vocationally oriented education, which contributes to the achievement of a vocational qualification recognised by the competent authorities in the Member State in which it is obtained; 
9. “continuing vocational training” means any vocational training undertaken by a person in the Community during his or her working life; 
12. “vocational training” means any form of initial vocational education or training, including technical and vocational teaching and apprenticeships, which contributes to the achievement of a vocational qualification recognised by the competent authorities in the Member State in which it is obtained, as well as any continuing vocational education or training undertaken by a person during his or her working life; 
1013. “adult education” means all forms of non-vocational adult learning, whether of a formal, non-formal or informal nature; 
1114. “study visit” means a short-term visit, made to study a particular aspect of lifelong learning in another Member State, to exchange good practice or to learn a new methodology or skill; 
1215. “mobility” means moving physically to another countryspending a period of time in another Member State, in order to undertake study, work experience, other learning or teaching activity or related administrative activity, supported as appropriate by preparationpreparatory or refresher courses in the host language or working language; 
1316. “placement” means a stayspending a period of time in an enterprise or organisation in another Member State, supported as appropriate by preparationpreparatory or refresher courses in the host language or working language, with a view to helping individuals to adapt to the requirements of the Community-wide labour market, to acquiring a specific skill orand to improving understanding of the economic and social culture of the country concerned in the context of acquiring work experience; 
1417. “unilateral” means involving a single institution; 
1518. “bilateral” means involving partners from two Member States; 
1619. “multilateral” means involving partners from at least three Member States. The Commission may regard associations or other bodies with membership from three Member States or more as multilateral; 
1720. “partnership” means a bilateral or multilateral agreement between a group of institutions or organisations in different Member States to carry out joint European activities in lifelong learning; 
1821. “network” means a formal or informal grouping of bodies active in a particular field, discipline or sector of lifelong learning; 
1922. “project” means a cooperation activity with a defined outcome developed jointly by a formal or informal grouping of organisations or institutions; 
2023. “project coordinator” means the organisation or institution in charge of the implementation of the project by the multilateral grouping which signs the grant agreement with the Commission; 
2124. “project partners” means the organisations or institutions other than the coordinator, which form the multilateral grouping; 
2225. “enterprise” means all undertakings engaged in economic activity in the public or private sector whatever their size, legal status or the economic sector in which they operate, and all types of economic activities, including the social economy; 
2326. “social partners” means, at national level, employers’ and workers’ organisations in conformity with national laws and/or practices and, at Community level, employers’ and workers’ organisations taking part in the social dialogue at Community level; 
24. “learning provider” means all institutions or organisations providing lifelong learning within the context of the Integrated Programme, or within the limits of its Specific Programmes; 
2527. “guidance and counselling” means a range of activities such as information, assessment, orientation and advice to assist learners, trainers and other staff to make choices relating to education and training programmes or employment opportunities; 
2628. “dissemination and exploitation of results” means activities designed to ensure that the results of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme and its predecessors are appropriately recognised, demonstrated and implemented on a wide scale; 
2729. “lifelong learning” means all general education, vocational education and training, non-formal education and informal learning undertaken throughout life, resulting in an improvement in knowledge, skills and competences within a personal, civic, social and/or employment-related perspective. It includes the provision of counselling and guidance services. 
Article 23 
SpecificSub- Programmes 
1. The sectoral sub-programmes shall be the following: 
18. the Comenius programme, which shall address the teaching and learning needs of all those in pre-school and school education up to the level of the end of upper secondary education, and the institutions and organisations providing such education; 
19. the Erasmus programme, which shall address the teaching and learning needs of all those in formal higher education and vocational education and training at tertiary level, whatever the length of their course or qualification may be and including doctoral studies, and the institutions and organisations providing or facilitating such education and training; 
20. the Leonardo da Vinci programme, which shall address the teaching and learning needs of all those in vocational education and training including initial and continuing vocational training, other than advanced level vocational education and training at tertiary level, other than at tertiary level, as well as the institutions and organisations providing or facilitating such education and training; 
21. the Grundtvig programme, which shall address the teaching and learning needs of those in all forms of adult education, as well as the institutions and organisations providing or facilitating such education. 
2. The Ttransversal programme shall comprise the following four key activities: 
22. policy cooperation and innovation in lifelong learning within the Community; 
23. promotion of language learning; 
24. development of innovative ICT-based content, services, pedagogies and practice for lifelong learning; 
25. dissemination and exploitation of results of actions supported under the programme and previous related programmes, and exchange of good practice. 
3. The Jean Monnet programme shall support institutions and activities in the field of European integration. It shall comprise the following three key activities: 
26. the Jean Monnet Action; 
27. operating grants to support specified institutions dealing with issues relating to European integration; 
28. operating grants to support other European institutions and associations in the fields of education and training. 
4. In addition to the objectives set out in Article 1, the Specific Programmes shall have the following specific objectives: 
29. the Comenius programme: 
(i) to develop understanding among young people and educational staff of the diversity of European cultures and its value; 
(ii) to help young people acquire the basic life-skills and competences necessary for their personal development, for future employment and for active European citizenship; 
30. the Erasmus programme: 
(i) to support the realisation of a European Higher Education Area; 
(ii) to reinforce the contribution of higher education and advanced vocational education to the process of innovation; 
31. the Leonardo da Vinci programme: to facilitate adaptation to labour market changes and to the evolution of skills needs; 
32. the Grundtvig programme: 
(i) to respond to the educational challenge of an ageing population in Europe; 
(ii) to help provide adults with alternative pathways to improving their knowledge and competences; 
33. the transversal programme: 
(i) to promote European cooperation in fields covering two or more sectoral programmes; 
(ii) to promote the convergence of Member States’ education and training systems; 
34. the Jean Monnet programme: 
(i) to stimulate teaching, research and reflection activities in the field of European integration studies; 
(ii) to support the existence of an appropriate range of institutions and associations focusing on issues relating to European integration and on education and training in a European perspective. 
Article 4 
Access to the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme 
The IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme is aimed in particular at: 
35. pupils, students, trainees and adult learners; 
36. teachers, trainers and other staff involved in any aspect of lifelong learning; 
37. people in the labour market; 
38. learning providersinstitutions or organisations providing learning opportunities within the context of the Lifelong Learning Programme, or within the limits of its sub-programmes; 
39. the persons and bodies responsible for systems and policies concerning any aspect of lifelong learning at local, regional and national level; 
40. enterprises, social partners and their organisations at all levels, including trade organisations and chambers of commerce and industry; 
41. bodies providing guidance, counselling and information services relating to any aspect of lifelong learning; 
42. associations working in the field of lifelong learning, including students’, trainees’, pupils’, teachers’, parents’ and adult learners’ associations; 
43. research centres and bodies concerned with lifelong learning issues; 
44. nonnot-for-profit organisations, voluntary bodies, non-governmental organisations (“NGOs”). 
Article 5 
Community actions 
1. The IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme shall comprise support for the following actions: 
45. the mobility of people in lifelong learning in Europe; 
46. bilateral and multilateral partnerships; 
47. multilateral projects especially designed to improve national education and training systemspromote quality in education and training systems through the transnational transfer of innovation; 
48. unilateral and national projects; 
49. multilateral projects and networks; 
50. observation and analysis of policies and systems in the field of lifelong learning, the establishment and regular improvement of reference material, including surveys, statistics, analyses and indicators, action to support transparency and recognition of qualifications and prior learning, and action to support cooperation in quality assurance; 
51. operating grants to support certain operational and administrative costs of organisations active in the field covered by the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme; 
52. other initiatives in line withaimed at promoting the objectives of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme (‘Accompanying Measures’). 
2. Community support may be awarded for preparatory visits in respect of any of the actions set out in this Article. 
3. The Commission may organise such seminars, colloquia or meetings as are likely to facilitate the implementation of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, and undertake appropriate information, publication and dissemination actions and actions to increase awareness of the programme as well as programme monitoring and evaluation. 
4. The actions referred to in this Article may be implemented by means of calls for proposals, calls for tenders, or directly by the Commission. 
Article 6 
Tasks of the Commission and the Member States 
1. The Commission shall ensure the effective and efficient implementation of the Community actions provided for by the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme. 
2. The Member States shall 
53. take the necessary steps to ensure the efficient running of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme at Member State level, involving all the parties concerned with all aspects of lifelong learning in accordance with national practice or legislation; 
54. establish or designate and monitor an appropriate structure for the coordinated management of the implementation of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme's actions at Member State level (national agencies), including budgetary management, in conformity with the provisions of Article 54(2)(c) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002[23] and of Article 38 of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002[24], in accordance with the following criteria: 
(i) an organisation established or designated as a national agency shall have legal personality or be part of an entity having legal personality, and be governed by the law of the Member State concerned. A ministry may not be designated as a national agency; 
(ii) national agencieseach national agency must have an adequate number of staffadequate staff to fulfil its tasks, with professional and linguistic capacities appropriate for work in an environment of international cooperation in the field of education and training; 
(iii) theyit must have an appropriate infrastructure, in particular as regards informatics and communications; 
(iv) theyit must operate in an administrative context which enables themit to carry out theirits tasks satisfactorily and to avoid conflicts of interest; 
(v) theyit must be in a position to apply the financial management rules and contractual conditions laid down at Community level; 
(vi) theyit must offer adequate financial guarantees, issued preferably by a public authority, and theirits management capacity must be appropriate to the level of Community funds theyit will be called upon to manage; 
55. take responsibility for the proper management by the national agencies referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above of credits transferred to national agencies to support projects, and in particular for the respect by national agencies of the principles of transparency, equality of treatment and of the avoidance of double-funding with other sources of Community funds, and of the obligation to monitor projects and to recover any funds due for reimbursement by beneficiaries; 
56. take the necessary steps to ensure the appropriate audit and financial oversight of the national agencies referred to under sub-paragraph (b) above, and in particular: 
(i) before the national agency starts work, provide the Commission with the necessary assurances as to the existence, relevance and proper operation within it, in accordance with the rules of sound financial management, of the procedures applied, the control systems, the accounting systems and the procurement and grant award procedures; 
(ii) provide the Commission with a declaration of assurance each year as to the reliability of the financial systems and procedures of the national agencies, and the probity of their accounts; 
57. in the event of irregularity, negligence or fraud imputable to a national structure established or designated under sub-paragraph (b) above, and where this gives rise to claims by the Commission on the national agency which are not completely recovered, be responsible for the funds not recovered; 
58. designate upon request from the Commission the learning providersinstitutions or organisations providing learning opportunities, or the types of learning providerssuch institutions or organisations, to be considered eligible to participate in the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme in their respective territories; 
59. endeavour to adopt all appropriate measures to remove legal and administrative obstacles to the proper functioning of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme; 
60. take steps to ensure that potential synergies with other Community programmes and financial instruments and with other relevant programmes operating in the Member State in question are realised at Member State level. 
3. The Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, shall ensure 
61. the transition between the actions carried out within the context of the preceding programmes in the fields of education, training and lifelong learning and those to be implemented under the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme; 
62. the adequate protection of the Communities’ financial interests, in particular by introducing effective, proportionate and dissuasive measures, administrative checks and penalties; 
63. appropriate information, publicity and follow-up with regard to actions supported under the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme; 
64. the collection, analysis and processing of available data required to measure the results and effects of the programme, and to monitor and evaluate activities as referred to in Article 15; 
65. the dissemination of the results of the previous generation of education and training programmes and of the Lifelong Learning Programme. 
Article 7 
Participation of third countries 
1. The IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme shall be open to the participation of: 
66. EFTA countries which are members of the EEA, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the EEA Agreement; 
67. Turkey and the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe benefiting from a pre-accession strategy, in accordance with the general principles and general terms and conditions for the participation of these countries in Community programmes established in the respective Framework Agreement and Association Council Decisions laid down in the framework agreements concluded with these countries for their participation in Community programmes ; 
68. the countries of the Western Balkans, in accordance with the provisions to be determined with these countries following the establishment of framework agreements concerning providing for their participation in Community programmes; 
69. the Swiss Confederation, on the basis of a bilateral agreement to be concluded with this country. 
2. Key activity 1 of the Jean Monnet programme referred to in Article 23(3)(a) shall also be open to higher education institutions in any other third country. 
3. Third countries participating in the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme shall be subject to all the obligations and will fulfil all the tasks set out in this Decision in relation to Member States. 
Article 8 
International cooperation 
Under the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, and in accordance with Article 9, the Commission may cooperate with third countries and with the competent international organisations, in particular the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). 
Chapter II Implementation of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme 
Article 9 
Implementing measures 
1. The measures necessary for the implementation of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme relating to the following matters shall be adopted by the Commission, in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 10(2): 
70. the annual plan of work including priorities; 
71. the annual budget and the distribution of funds between and within the Specificsub-programmes; 
72. the general guidelines for implementing the sub-programmes (including decisions concerning the nature of the actions, their duration and funding level), the selection criteria and procedures; 
73. the Commission's proposals for the selection of applications for multilateral projects and networks as referred to in Article 33(1)(b) and (c); 
74. the Commission's proposals for the selection of applications for actions set out in Article 5(1)(c) and in Article 5(1)(e) not covered by the preceding sub paragraph and in (f), (g) and (h), for which the Community support proposed exceeds €1 million; 
75. the definition of the respective roles and responsibilities of the Commission, the Member States and the National Agencies regarding the "National agency procedures" set out in the Annex; 
76. the distribution of funds among the Member States for the actions to be managed through the “National agency procedure 1” set out in the Annex; 
77. the arrangements for ensuring internal consistency within the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme; 
78. the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme and the sub-programmes and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 
2. The measures necessary for the implementation of all matters within Title I other than those specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 10(3). 
Article 10 
Committee 
1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee, hereinafter referred to as “the Committee”. 
2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof.The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at two months. 
3. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 
4. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. 
5. Member States may not be represented by persons employed in, or having operational responsibility for, national agencies referred to in Article 6(2)(b). 
Article 11 
Social partners 
1. Whenever the Committee is consulted on any matter concerning the application of this Decision in relation to vocational education and training, representatives of the social partners, appointed by the Commission on the basis of proposals from the European social partners, may participate in the work of the Committee as observers. The number of such observers shall be equal to the number of representatives of the Member States. 
2. Such observers shall have the right to request that their position be recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Committee. 
Article 12 
Horizontal issues policies 
In implementing the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, due regard shall be paid to ensuring that it contributes fully to furthering the horizontal policies of the Community, in particular by: 
79. promoting an awareness of the importance of cultural and linguistic diversity and multiculturality within Europe, as well as of the need to combat racism , prejudice and xenophobia; 
80. making provision for learners with special needs, and in particular by helping to promote their integration into mainstream education and training; 
81. promoting an awareness of the importance of contributing to sustainable economic development; 
82. promoting equality between men and women and contributing to combating all forms of discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. 
Article 13 
Joint Actions 
As part of the process of building up a Europe of knowledge, the actions supported under the Integrated Programme may be implemented in accordance with the procedures referred to in Article 10(2) jointly with related Community programmes and actions, particularly those in the field of culture, the media, youth, research and development, employment, enterprise, environment and information and communication technologies. 
Article 1413 
Consistency and complementarity with other policies 
1. The Commission shall, in cooperation with the Member States, ensure overall consistency and complementarity with the "Education %amp% Training 2010" Work Programme and other relevant Community policies, instruments and actions, in particular with the European Social Fund, with the human resource and mobility actions of the Community’s Framework Programme in research and development, and with the Community’s statistical programme.those in the field of culture, the media, youth, research and development, employment, recognition of qualifications, enterprise, environment, information and communication technologies and the Community's statistical programme. 
The Commission shall, in cooperation with the Member States, ensure an efficient link-up between the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme and the programmes and actions in the area of education and training undertaken within the framework of the Community's pre-accession instruments, other cooperation with third countries and the competent international organisations. 
2. The Commission shall keep the Committee regularly informed about other relevant Community initiatives taken in the field of lifelong learning, including cooperation with third countries and international organisations. 
3. In implementing actions under the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, the Commission and the Member States shall have regard to the priorities set out in the employment guidelinesintegrated guidelines for employment adopted by the Council, as part of a coordinated employment strategythe Lisbon partnership for growth and jobs. 
4. In partnership with the European social partners, the Commission shall endeavour to develop an appropriate coordination between the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme and the social dialogue at Community level, including at sectoral levelsin the different sectors of the economy. 
5. In implementing the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, the Commission shall secure the assistance as appropriate of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) in areas related to its competence and in accordance with the arrangements set out in Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 of the Council[25]. Where appropriate, the Commission may also secure the support of the European Training Foundation within the scope of its mandate and in accordance with the arrangements set out in Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90[26]. 
6. The Commission shall keep the Advisory Committee on Vocational Training regularly informed of relevant progress under the Leonardo da Vinci Programmein the area of vocational education and training. 
Chapter III Financial provisions - Evaluation 
Article 1514 
Funding 
1. The indicative financial framework for the implementation of the Integrated Programmethis Decision for the period of 7 years as from 1 January 2007 is set at EUR 13,6206 970 million. Of this sumWithin this framework, the amountsallocations to be committed to the Comenius, Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci and Grundtvig programmes shall not be less than as set out in point B.810 of the Annex. Those amountsallocations may be amended by the Commission in accordance with the procedures referred to in Article 10(2). 
2. Up to 1% of the budget of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme may be used to support the participation in partnership, project and network actions organised under the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme of partners from third countries which do not participate in the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme under the provisions of Article 7. 
3. The annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limits of the financial perspectiveframework. 
Article 1615 
Monitoring and evaluation 
1. The Commission shall, in cooperation with the Member States, regularly monitor and evaluate the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme against its objectivesin cooperation with the Member States. This monitoring shall include the reports referred to in paragraph 4 and specific activities. 
2. The Commission shall arrange for regular independent external evaluations of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme and shall regularly publish statistics for monitoring progress. 
3. The findings of the monitoring and evaluation of the Lifelong Learning Programme and the previous generation of education and training programmes should be taken into account when implementing the Programme. 
4. Member States shall submit to the Commission by 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2015, respectively, reports on the implementation and the impact of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme. 
5. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: 
83. an interim evaluation report on the results achieved and on the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the implementation of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, including an analysis of the results achieved, by 31 March 2011, 
84. a communication on the continuation of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme by 31 December 2011, 
85. an ex post evaluation report by 31 March 2016. 
TITLE II 
THE SPECIFICSUB-PROGRAMMES 
Chapter I The Comenius programme 
Article 1716 
Access to the Comenius programme 
Within the framework of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, the Comenius programme is aimed at: 
86. pupils in pre-school and school education up to the end of upper secondary education; 
87. schools, as specified by Member States; 
88. teaching, support and administrativeteachers and other staff within those schools; 
89. associations , not-for-profit organisations, NGOs and representatives of those involved in school education; 
90. public and private organisationspersons and bodies responsible for the organisation and delivery of education at local, regional and national levels; 
91. research centres and bodies concerned with lifelong learning issues; 
92. higher education institutions; 
93. bodies providing guidance, counselling and information services. 
Article 1817 
Operational objectives Objectives of the Comenius programme 
1. In addition to the objectives of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme set out in Articles 1 and 2Article 1, the operationalspecific objectives of the Comenius programme shall be: 
94. to develop knowledge and understanding among young people and educational staff of the diversity of European cultures and languages and its value; 
95. to help young people acquire the basic life-skills and competences necessary for their personal development, for future employment and for active European citizenship. 
2. The operational objectives of the Comenius programme shall be: 
96. to increase the volume and improve the quality of exchangesimprove the quality and to increase the volume of mobility involving pupils and educational staff in different Member States; 
97. to increase the volume and improve the quality ofimprove the quality and to increase the volume of partnerships between schools in different Member States, so as to involve at least one pupil in twenty 3 million pupils in joint educational activities during the period of the programme; 
98. to encourage the learning of a second foreign languagemodern foreign languages; 
99. to support the development of innovative ICT-based content, services, pedagogies and practice for lifelong learning; 
100. to reinforceenhance the quality and European dimension of teacher training; 
101. to improvesupport improvements in pedagogical approaches and school management. 
Article 1918 
Actions of the Comenius programme 
1. The following actions may be supported by the Comenius programme: 
102. mobility of individuals as referred to in Article 5(1)(a). In arranging for or supporting the organisation of such mobility, the necessary preparatory measures shall be adopted and care shall be taken to ensure that adequate supervision and support is available for young people in mobility. Such mobility may include: 
(i) exchanges of pupils and staff; 
(ii) mobility to schools for pupils and placements in schools or enterprises abroad for pupils or for educational staff; 
(iii) participation in training courses for teachers and other educational staff; 
(iv) study and preparatory visits for mobility, partnership, project or network activities; 
(v) assistantships for teachers and potential teachers. 
103. development of partnerships as referred to in Article 5(1)(b) between: 
(i) schools (‘Comenius partnerships’), with a view to developing joint learning projects between thefor pupils and their teachers (‘Comenius school partnerships’); 
(ii) organisations responsible for any aspect of school education, with a view to fostering regional cooperation (‘Comenius-Regio partnerships’); 
104. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(c), in particular those aimed at improving school education systems through the transfer of innovation and good practice; 
105. multilateral cooperation projects as referred to in Article 5(1)(e). They may include projects aimed at: 
(i) developing, promoting and disseminating educational best practices, including new teaching methods or materials; 
(ii) developing or exchanging experience on systems of providing information or guidance particularly adapted to the learners, teachers and other staff concerned by the Comenius programme; 
(iii) developing, promoting and disseminating new teacher training courses or course content; 
106. networks as referred to in Article 5(1)(e). They may include networks aimed at: 
(i) developing education in the discipline or subject area in which they operate, for their own benefit and for that of education more widely; 
(ii) acquiring and disseminating relevant good practice and innovation; 
(iii) providing content support to projects and partnerships set up by others; 
(iv) promoting the development of needs analysis and its practical applications within school education; 
107. other initiatives aimed at promoting the objectives of the Comenius programme as referred to in Article 5(1)(h) (‘Accompanying Measures’). 
2. The operational details of the actions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 
Article 2019 
Budget of the Comenius programme 
Not less than 85%80% of the budget available for the Comenius programme shall be devoted to support for mobility as referred to in Article 1918(1)(a) and for Comenius partnerships as set out in Article 1918(1)(b). 
Article 21 
Implementing measures 
1. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Comenius programme relating to the following matters shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 10(2): 
108. the annual plan of work; 
109. the annual budget and the distribution of funds between the various actions of the Comenius programme; 
110. the general guidelines for implementing the Comenius programme, the selection criteria and procedures; 
111. the distribution of funds among the Member States for the actions to be managed through the “National agency procedure” set out in the Annex; 
112. the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 
2. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Comenius programme relating to all matters other than those specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 10(3). 
Chapter II The Erasmus programme 
Article 2220 
Access to the Erasmus programme 
Within the framework of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, the Erasmus programme is aimed at: 
113. students and trainees learning in all forms of higher education and advanced vocational education and training (ISCED levels 5 and 6)tertiary level education and training ; 
114. higher education institutions, as specified by Member States; 
115. teaching and administrativeteachers, trainers and other staff within those institutions; 
116. associations and representatives of those involved in higher education, including relevant student, university, and teacher/trainer associations; 
117. enterprises, social partners and other representatives of working life; 
118. public and private organisations, including not-for-profit organisations and NGOs, responsible for the organisation and delivery of education and training at local and, regional and national levels; 
119. research centres and bodies concerned with lifelong learning issues; 
120. bodies providing guidance, counselling and information services. 
Article 2321 
Operational Objectives Objectives of the Erasmus programme 
1. In addition to the objectives of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme set out in Articles 1 and 2Article 1, the operationalspecific objectives of the Erasmus programme shall be: 
121. to support the realisation of a European Higher Education Area; 
122. to reinforce the contribution of higher education and advanced vocational education to the process of innovation. 
2. The operational objectives of the Erasmus programme shall be: 
123. to increase the volume and improve the quality ofimprove the quality and to increase the volume of student and teaching staff mobility throughout Europe, so as to contribute to the achievement by 20112012 of at least 3 million individual participants in student mobility under the Erasmus and its predecessor programmes; 
124. to increase the volume and improve the quality ofimprove the quality and to increase the volume of multilateral cooperation between higher education institutions in Europe; 
125. to increase the degree of convergence oftransparency and compatibility between higher education and advanced vocational education qualifications gained in Europe; 
126. to fosterimprove the quality and to increase the volume of co-operation between higher education institutions and enterprises; 
127. to facilitate the development of innovative practices in education and training at tertiary level, and their transfer, including from one participating country to others; 
128. to support the development of innovative ICT-based content, services, pedagogies and practice for lifelong learning. 
Article 2422 
Actions of the Erasmus programme 
1. The following actions may be supported by the Erasmus programme: 
129. mobility of individuals as referred to in Article 5(1)(a). Such mobility may include: 
(i) mobility of students for studiesthe purposes of studying or training abroadin Member States in higher education institutions, as well as placements in enterprises, training centres, research centres or other organisations; 
(ii) mobility of teaching staff in higher education institutions in order to teach or receive training in a partner institution abroad; 
(iii) mobility of other staff in higher education institutions and staff of enterprises for purposes of training or teaching; 
(iv) Erasmus intensive programmes organised on a multilateral basis. 
Support may also be awarded to the home and host higher education institutions or enterprises for action to ensure quality at all stages of the mobility arrangements, including language preparationpreparatory and refresher language courses . 
130. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(c), in particular those aimed at improving higher education through the transfer of innovation and good practice; 
131. jointmultilateral projects as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), focusing inter alia on innovation and, experimentation and the exchange of good practice in the areas mentioned in the specific and operational objectives; 
132. networks as referred to in Article 5(1)(e) run by consortia of higher education institutions and representing a discipline or a cross-disciplinary field, (‘Erasmus thematic networks’) which aim to develop new learning concepts and competencies. Such networks may also include representatives from other public bodies or from enterprises or associations; 
133. other initiatives aimed at promoting the objectives of the Erasmus programme, as referred to in Article 5(1)(h) (‘Accompanying Measures’). 
2. Individuals participating in mobility under paragraph 1(a)(i) (‘Erasmus students’) shall be: 
134. students in higher education institutions who, after completing at least their first year of studiesenrolled at least in the second year, spend a study period in another Member State within the framework of the mobility Action of the Erasmus programme, regardless whether they have been awarded financial support under that programme. Such periods shall be fully recognised under the interinstitutional agreements between the sending and host institutions. The host institutions shall not charge tuition fees to such students; 
135. students enrolled on Joint Masters programmes in a country other than the one in which they gained their Bachelors degreeand engaged in mobility; 
136. students in higher education institutions taking part in placements in enterprises or training centres. 
3. The operational details of the actions set out in paragraph 1 shall be decided following the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 
Article 2523 
Budget of the Erasmus programme 
Not less than 85%80% of the budget available for the Erasmus programme shall be devoted to support for mobility as referred to in Article 2422(1)(a). 
Article 26 
Implementing measures 
1. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Erasmus programme relating to the following matters shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 10(2): 
137. the annual plan of work; 
138. the annual budget and the distribution of funds between the various actions of the Erasmus programme; 
139. the general guidelines for implementing the Erasmus programme, the selection criteria and procedures; 
140. the distribution of funds among the Member States for the actions to be managed through the “National agency procedure” set out in the Annex; 
141. the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 
2. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Erasmus programme relating to all matters other than those specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 10(3). 
Chapter III The Leonardo da Vinci programme 
Article 2724 
Access to the Leonardo da Vinci programme 
Within the framework of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme, the Leonardo da Vinci programme is aimed at: 
142. young people learning in all forms of vocational education and training up to the end of upper secondary education (up to ISCED level 3)except at tertiary level; 
143. learners in continuing vocational education and training (ISCED level 4); 
144. people in the labour market; 
145. learning providersinstitutions or organisations providing learning opportunities in the fields covered by the Leonardo da Vinci programme; 
146. teaching and administrativeteachers, trainers and other staff within those learning providersinstitutions or organisations; 
147. associations and representatives of those involved in vocational education and training, including trainees’, parents’ and teachers’ associations; 
148. enterprises, social partners and other representatives of working life, including chambers of commerce and other trade organisations; 
149. bodies providing guidance, counselling and information services relating to any aspect of lifelong learning; 
150. persons and bodies responsible for systems and policies concerning any aspect of lifelong learningvocational education and training at local, regional and national level; 
151. research centres and bodies concerned with lifelong learning issues; 
152. higher education institutions; 
153. non profit makingnot-for-profit organisations, voluntary bodies, NGOs. 
Article 2825 
Operational objectivesObjectives of the Leonardo da Vinci programme 
1. In addition to the objectives of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme set out in Articles 1 and 2Article 1, the operationalspecific objectives of the Leonardo da Vinci programme shall be: 
154. to support participants in training and further training activities in the acquisition and the use of knowledge, skills and qualifications to facilitate personal development, employability and participation in the European labour market; 
155. to support improvements in quality and innovation in vocational education and training systems, institutions and practices; 
156. to enhance the attractiveness of vocational education and training and mobility for employers and individuals. 
2. The operational objectives of the Leonardo da Vinci programme shall be: 
157. to increase the volume and to improve the qualityimprove the quality and to increase the volume of mobility throughout Europe of people involved in initial vocational education and training and in continuing training, so as to increase placements in enterprises to at least 150,000 80 000 per year by the end of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme; 
158. to increase the volume and to improve the qualityimprove the quality and to increase the volume of co-operation between learning providersinstitutions or organisations providing learning opportunities, enterprises, social partners and other relevant bodies throughout Europe; 
159. to facilitate the development of innovative practices in the fields of initial and continuing trainingfield of vocational education and training other than at tertiary level, and their transfer, including from one participating country to others; 
160. to improve the transparency and recognition of qualifications and competences, including those acquired through non-formal and informal learning; 
161. to encourage the learning of modern foreign languages; 
162. to support the development of innovative ICT-based content, services, pedagogies and practice for lifelong learning. 
Article 2926 
Actions of the Leonardo da Vinci programme 
1. The following actions may be supported by the Leonardo da Vinci programme: 
163. mobility of individuals, as referred to in Article 5(1)(a). In arranging for or supporting the organisation of such mobility, the necessary preparatory measures, including language preparation, shall be adopted and care shall be taken to ensure that adequate supervision and support is available for people in mobility. Such mobility may include: 
(i) transnational placements in enterprises or in training institutions; 
(ii) placements and exchanges aimed at the further professional development of trainers and guidance counsellors, ofand at those responsible for training establishments and for training planning and career guidance within enterprises; 
164. partnerships, as referred to in Article 5(1)(b), focusing on themes of mutual interest to the participating organisations; 
165. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(c), in particular those aimed at improving training systems throughby focusing on the transfer of innovation involving the linguistic, cultural and legal adaptation to national needs of innovative products and processes developed in different contexts; 
166. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), aimed at improving training systems throughby focusing on the development and transfer of innovation and good practice; 
167. thematic networks of experts and organisations, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), working on specific issues related to vocational education and training; 
168. other initiatives aimed at promoting the objectives of the Leonardo da Vinci programme, as referred to in Article 5(1)(h) (‘Accompanying Measures’). 
2. The operational details of such actions shall be decided following the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 
Article 3027 
Budget of the Leonardo da Vinci programme 
Not less than 75%60% of the budget available for the Leonardo da Vinci programme shall be devoted to support for mobility and partnerships as referred to in Article 2926(1)(a) and (b). 
Article 31 
Implementing measures 
1. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Leonardo da Vinci programme relating to the following matters shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 
169. the annual plan of work; 
170. the annual budget and the distribution of funds between the various actions of the Leonardo da Vinci programme; 
171. the general guidelines for implementing the Leonardo da Vinci programme, the selection criteria and procedures; 
172. the distribution of funds among the Member States for the actions to be managed through the “National agency procedure” set out in the Annex; 
173. the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 
2. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Leonardo da Vinci programme relating to all matters other than those specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 10(3). 
Chapter IV The Grundtvig programme 
Article 3228 
Access to the Grundtvig programme 
Within the framework of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, the Grundtvig programme is aimed at: 
174. learners in adult education; 
175. learning providersinstitutions or organisations providing learning opportunities in adult education; 
176. teaching and administrativeteachers and other staff within those learning providers and other organisations involved in adult educationinstitutions or organisations; 
177. establishments involved in the initial or further training of adult education staff; 
178. associations and representatives of those involved in adult education, including learners’ and teachers’ associations; 
179. bodies providing guidance, counselling and information services relating to any aspect of adult education; 
180. persons and bodies responsible for systems and policies concerning any aspect of adult education at local, regional and national level; 
181. research centres and bodies concerned with adult education issues; 
182. enterprises; 
183. non profit makingnot-for-profit organisations, voluntary bodies, NGOs; 
184. higher education institutions. 
Article 3329 
Operational ObjectivesObjectives of the Grundtvig programme 
1. In addition to the objectives of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme set out in Articles 1 and 2 Article 1 , the operational specific objectives of the Grundtvig programme shall be: 
185. to respond to the educational challenge of an ageing population in Europe; 
186. to help provide adults with alternative pathways to improving their knowledge and competences. 
2. The operational objectives of the Grundtvig programme shall be: 
187. to increase the volume and to improve the quality and accessibility of mobility throughout Europe of people involved in adult education and to increase its volume, so as to support the mobility of at least 25,0007 000 of such individuals per year by 2013; 
188. to increase the volume and to improve the qualityimprove the quality and to increase the volume of co-operation between organisations involved in adult education throughout Europe; 
189. to facilitate the development of innovative practices in adult education and their transfer, including from a participating country to others; 
190. to ensure thatassist people from vulnerable social groups and in marginal social contexts, in particular older people and those who have left education without basic qualifications, are givenin order to give them alternative opportunities to access adult education; 
191. to facilitate the development of innovative practices in adult education and their transfer, including from a participating country to others; 
192. to support the development of innovative ICT-based content, services, pedagogies and practice for lifelong learning; 
193. to improve pedagogical approaches and the management of adult education organisations. 
Article 3430 
Actions of the Grundtvig programme 
1. The following actions may be supported by the Grundtvig programme: 
194. mobility of individuals, as referred to in Article 5(1)(a). In arranging for or supporting the organisation of such mobility, the necessary preparatory measures shall be adopted and care shall be taken to ensure that adequate supervision and support is available for people in mobility. Such mobility may include visits, placements, assistantships and exchanges for participants in formal and non-formal adult education, including the training and professional development of adult education staff, especially in synergy with partnerships and projects; 
195. partnerships, as referred to in Article 5(1)(b), known as ‘Grundtvig learning partnerships’, focusing on themes of mutual interest to the participating organisations; 
196. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(c), in particular those aimed at improving adult education systems through the transfer of innovation and good practice; 
197. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), aimed at improving adult education systems through the development and transfer of innovation and good practice; 
198. thematic networks of experts and organisations, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), known as ‘Grundtvig networks’, working in particular on: 
(i) developing adult education in the discipline, subject area or management aspect to which they relate; 
(ii) identifying, improving and disseminating relevant good practice and innovation; 
(iii) providing content support to projects and partnerships set up by others and facilitating interactivity between such projects and partnerships; 
(iv) promoting the development of needs analysis and quality assurance within adult education; 
199. other initiatives aimed at promoting the objectives of the Grundtvig programme, as referred to in Article 5(1)(h) (‘Accompanying Measures’). 
2. The operational details of such actions shall be decided following the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 
Article 3531 
Budget of the Grundtvig programme 
Not less than 60%55% of the budget available for the Grundtvig programme shall be devoted to support for mobility and partnerships as referred to in Article 3430(1)(a) and (b). 
Article 36 
Implementing measures 
1. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Grundtvig programme relating to the following matters shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 
200. the annual plan of work; 
201. the annual budget and the distribution of funds between the various actions of the Grundtvig programme; 
202. the general guidelines for implementing the Grundtvig programme, the selection criteria and procedures; 
203. the distribution of funds among the Member States for the actions to be managed through the “National agency procedure” set out in the Annex; 
204. the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 
2. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Grundtvig programme relating to all matters other than those specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 10(3). 
Chapter V The Transversal programme 
Article 3732 
Operational objectivesObjectives of the Transversal programme 
1. In addition to the general objectives of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme set out in Articles 1 and 2Article 1, the operationalspecific objectives of the Ttransversal p rogramme shall be: 
205. to promote European cooperation in fields covering two or more sectoral sub-programmes; 
206. to promote the convergencequality and transparency of Member States’ education and training systems. 
2. The operational objectives of the Transversal programme shall be: 
207. to support policy development at European level in lifelong learning, notably in the context of the Lisbon process and “Education and Training 2010”, as well as the Bologna and Copenhagen processes and their successors; 
208. to ensure an adequate supply of comparable data, statistics and analyses to underpin lifelong learning policy development; 
209. to monitor progress towards objectives and targets in lifelong learning, and to identify areas for particular attention ; 
210. to ensure an adequate supply of comparable data, statistics and analyses to underpin lifelong learning policy development, as well as to monitor progress towards objectives and targets in lifelong learning, and to identify areas for particular attention; 
211. to promote language learning and to support linguistic diversity in the Member States; 
212. to support the development of innovative ICT-based content, services, pedagogies and practice for lifelong learning; 
213. to ensure that the results of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme are appropriately recognised, demonstrated and implemented on a wide scale. 
Article 3833 
Actions of the Transversal programme 
1. The following actions may be supported under the key activity of policy cooperation and innovation in lifelong learning, as referred to in Article 23(2)(a): 
214. individual mobility, as referred to in Article 5(1)(a), including study visits for experts and officials designated by national, regional and local authorities, for directors of education and training establishments and guidance and experience accreditation services, and for social partners; 
215. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), aimed at preparing and testing policy proposals developed at Community level and innovation in lifelong learning; 
216. multilateral cooperation networks, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), of experts and/or institutions working together on policy issues. Such networks may include: 
(i) thematic networks working on issues related to the content of lifelong learning or to lifelong learning methodologies and policies. Such networks may observe, exchange, identify and analyse good practice and innovation, and make proposals for a better and wider use of such practices across the Member States; 
(ii) standing conferencesfora on policy strategic issues, aimed at coordinating policy at European level on strategic issues in lifelong learning; 
217. observation and analysis of policies and systems in the field of lifelong learning, as referred to in Article 5(1)(f), which may include: 
(i) studies and comparative research; 
(ii) development of indicators and statistical surveys, including support for work undertaken in the field of lifelong learning in cooperation with Eurostat ; 
(iii) support for the operation of the Eurydice network and funding of the Eurydice European Unit set up by the Commission; 
218. action to support transparency and recognition of qualifications and competences including those acquired through non formal and informal learning, information and guidance on mobility for learning purposes, and cooperation in quality assurance, as referred to in Article 5(1)(f), which may include: 
(i) networks of organisations which facilitate mobility and recognition, such as Euroguidance and National Academic Recognition Information Centres (NARICs); 
(ii) support for transnational web-based services such as Ploteus; 
(iii) activities under the Europass initiative in accordance with Decision No 2241/2004/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council adopting a single framework for the transparency of qualifications and competences. 
219. other initiatives as referred to in Article 5(1)(h) (‘Accompanying Measures’), including peer learning activities, aimed at promoting the objectives of the key activity referred to in Article 23(2)(a). 
2. The following strategic actions, designed to address teaching and learning needs at more than one life-stageconcerning more than one sub-programme area, may be supported under the key activity of language learning, as referred to in Article 23(2)(b): 
220. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), aimed, inter alia , at: 
(i) developing new language learning materials, including online courses, and instruments for language testing; 
(ii) developing tools and courses for language teacher training language teachers, trainers and other staff; 
221. networks as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), in the field of language learning and linguistic diversity; 
222. other initiatives in line with the objectives of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, as referred to in Article 5(1)(h), including activities to make language learning more attractive to learners through the mass media and/or marketing, publicity and information campaigns, as well as conferences, studies and statistical indicators in the field of language learning and linguistic diversity. 
3. The following actions, designed to address teaching and learning needs concerning more than one sub-programme area, may be supported under the key activity of ICT, as referred to in Article 23(2)(c): 
223. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), aimed at the development and distribution of innovative methods, contents, services and environments; 
224. networks as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), aimed at sharing and exchanging knowledge, experience and good practice; 
225. other action aimed at improving lifelong learning policy and practice, as described in Article 5(1)(f), which may include mechanisms for evaluation, observation, benchmarking, quality improvement and the analysis of trends with respect to technology and pedagogy. 
4. The following actions may be supported under the key activity of dissemination, as referred to in Article 23(2)(d): 
226. unilateral and national projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(d); 
227. multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), aimed inter alia at: 
(i) supporting the exploitation and implementation of innovative products and processes; 
(ii) stimulating cooperation between projects operating in the same field; 
(iii) developing good practice with regard to dissemination methods; 
228. the establishment of reference material as referred to in Article 5(1)(f), which may include the collection of relevant statistical data and studies in the field of dissemination, the exploitation of results and the exchange of good practice. 
Article 39 
Implementing measures of the Transversal Programme 
1. The measures necessary for the implementation of the transversal programme relating to the following matters shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 10(2): 
229. the annual plan of work, and the selection criteria and procedures; 
230. the annual budget and the distribution of funds between the various actions of the transversal programme; 
231. the guidelines for implementing the transversal programme and its key activities; 
232. the distribution of funds among the Member States for the actions to be managed through the “National agency procedure” set out in the Annex; 
233. the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 
2. The measures necessary for the implementation of the transversal programme relating to all matters other than those specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 10(3). 
Chapter VI The Jean Monnet programme 
Article 4034 
Access to the Jean Monnet programme 
Within the framework of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme and the Annex, the Jean Monnet programme is aimed at: 
234. students and researchers in the field of European integration in all forms of higher education (ISCED levels 5 and 6) within and outside the Community; 
235. higher education institutions within and outside the Community as recognised within their own countries; 
236. teaching and administrativeteachers and other staff within those institutions; 
237. associations and representatives of those involved in education and training within and outside the Community; 
238. public and private organisations responsible for the organisation and delivery of education and training at local and regional levels; 
239. research centres and bodies concerned with issues relating to European integration within and outside the Community. 
Article 4135 
Operational objectivesObjectives of the Jean Monnet programme 
1. In addition to the general objectives of the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme set out in Articles 1 and 2Article 1, the operationalspecific objectives of the Jean Monnet programme shall be: 
240. to stimulate teaching, research and reflection activities in the field of European integration studies; 
241. to support the existence of an appropriate range of institutions and associations focusing on issues relating to European integration and on education and training in a European perspective. 
2. The operational objectives of the Jean Monnet programme shall be: 
242. to stimulate excellence in teaching, research and reflection in European integration studies in higher education institutions within and outside the Community; 
243. to enhance knowledge and awareness among specialist academics and among European citizens generally of issues relating to European integration; 
244. to support key European institutions dealing with issues relating to European integration; 
245. to support the existence of high-quality European associations and institutions active in the fields of education and training. 
Article 4236 
Actions of the Jean Monnet programme 
1. The following actions may be supported under the key activity referred to in Article 23(3)(a): 
246. unilateral and national projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(d), which may include: 
(i) Jean Monnet Chairs, centres of excellence and teaching modules; 
(ii) associations of professors, other teachers in higher education, and researchers specialising in European integration; 
(iii) support for young researchers specialising in European integration studies; 
(iv) information and research activities relating to the Community with the aim of promoting discussion, reflection and knowledge about the process of European integration; 
247. multilateral projects and networks, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e), which may include support for the establishment of multilateral research groups in the field of European integration. 
2. Operating grants as referred to in Article 5(1)(g) to support certain operational and administrative costs of the following institutions pursuing an aim of European interest may be awarded under the key activity referred to in Article 23(3)(b): 
248. the College of Europe (Bruges and Natolin campuses); 
249. the European University Institute, Florence; 
250. the European Institute of Public Administration, Maastricht; 
251. the Academy of European Law, Trier; 
252. the European Agency for Development in Special Needs Education, Middelfart. 
3. Under the key activity referred to in Article 23(3)(c), operating grants as referred to in Article 5(1)(g) may be awarded to support certain operational and administrative costs of European institutions or associations active in the fields of education and training. 
4. Grants may be awarded on an annual basis or on a renewable basis within a framework partnership agreement with the Commission. 
Article 4337 
Budget of the Jean Monnet programme 
Not less than 28%16% of the budget available for the Jean Monnet programme shall be devoted to support for the key activity referred to in Article 23(3)(a), not less than 44%65% to the key activity referred to in Article 23(3)(b), and not less than 18%19% to the key activity referred to in Article 23(3)(c). 
Article 44 
Implementing measures 
1. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Jean Monnet programme relating to the following matters shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 10(2): 
253. the annual plan of work, and the selection criteria and procedures; 
254. the annual budget and the distribution of funds between the various actions of the Jean Monnet programme; 
255. the guidelines for implementing the Jean Monnet programme and its key activities; 
256. the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 
2. The measures necessary for the implementation of the Jean Monnet programme relating to all matters other than those specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 10(3). 
TITLE III 
TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS 
Article 4538 
Transitional provision 
1. Actions which are initiated on or before 31 December 2006 on the basis of Decision No 382/1999/EC[27], of Decision No 253/2000/EC[28], of Decision No 2318/2003/EC[29], of Decision No 791/2004/EC[30] or of Decision No 2241/2004/EC [31], shall be administered in conformity with the provisions of those Decisions, with the exception that the committees established by those Decisions shall be replaced by the committee established by Article 10 of the present Decision. 
2. As provided for by Article 18 of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, the appropriations corresponding to assigned revenue arising from the repayment of amounts wrongly paid persuant to Decision No 382/1999/EC, Decision No 253/2000/EC, Decision No 2318/2003/EC, Decision No 791/2004/EC or Decision No 2241/2004/EC, may be made available to the Programme. 
Article 4639 
Entry into force 
This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union . 
Done at Brussels, 
For the European Parliament For the Council 
The President The President 
ANNEX 
ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 
A. Administrative Provisions 
Procedures for the proposal and selection of the activities contained in the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme are as follows: 
1. National agency procedure 
1.1. Procedure 1 
The following actions, under which the selection decisions are taken by the appropriate national agencies, shall be managed through the ‘National agency procedure 1’: 
257. the trans-national mobility of people in lifelong learning in Europe, as referred to in Article 5(1)(a); 
258. bilateral and multilateral partnerships, as referred to in Article 5(1)(b); 
259. unilateral and national projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(d), where these are funded under Article 3833(4)(a). 
Requests for financial assistance submitted under these actions shall be directed to the appropriate national agencies designated by the Member States in accordance with Article 6(2)(b). The national agencies shall carry out the selection and allocate financial assistance to the applicants selected in accordance with the general guidelines to be established under Articles 9, 21, 26, 31, 36 and 39Article 9. The national agencies shall distribute grants to beneficiaries located in their respective Member States. Each partner in a bilateral or multilateral partnership shall receive funding direct from its respective national agency. 
1.2. Procedure 2 
The following action, under which the evaluation and the selection decisions are taken by the Commission, but evaluation and contracting procedures are undertaken by the appropriate national agencies, shall be managed through the ‘National agency procedure 2’: 
- multilateral projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(c). 
Requests for financial assistance submitted under this action shall be directed to the national agency designated by the Member State of the coordinator of the project in accordance with Article 6(2)(b). The national agency of the Member State of the coordinator of the project shall carry out the evaluation of applications and submit to the Commission a shortlist of applications which it proposes to accept. The Commission shall decide upon the shortlist proposed, following which the National Agency shall allocate the appropriate financial assistance to the applicants selected in accordance with the general guidelines to be established under Article 31. Before submitting the shortlist to the Commission, the national agency of the country in which the project is coordinated shall liaise with those in the countries of all the other project partners. Commission, which shall carry out an evaluation of the quality of proposals in collaboration with experts from the Member States. The Commission shall carry out the selection and allocate financial assistance to the applicants selected in accordance with the general guidelines to be established under Article 9. The Commission shall transfer the funds necessary to support the selected projects to the national agency of the project coordinator. The national agencies shall distribute grants to selected project coordinators located in their respective Member States, which shall be responsible for distributing the funds to the partners involved in the projects. 
2. Commission procedure 
The following actions, under which project proposals are submitted to the Commission and the selection decisions are taken by the Commission, shall be managed through the ‘Commission procedure’: 
260. unilateral and national projects, as referred to in Article 5(1)(d), except those funded under Article 3833(4)(a); 
261. multilateral projects and networks, as referred to in Article 5(1)(e); 
262. observation and analysis of policies and systems in the field of lifelong learning, the establishment of reference material, including surveys, statistics, analyses and indicators, and action to support transparency and recognition of qualifications and prior learning, as referred to in Article 5(1)(f); 
263. operating grants, as referred to in Article 5(1)(g); 
264. other initiatives in line withaimed at promoting the objectives of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, (‘Accompanying Measures’) as referred to in Article 5(1)(h). 
Requests for financial assistance submitted under these actions shall be directed to the Commission, which shall carry out the selection and allocate financial assistance to the applicants selected in accordance with the general guidelines to be established under Articles 9, 21, 26, 31, 36, 39 and 44Article 9. 
B. Financial Provisions 
The Commission shall ensure that the financial and administrative requirements placed on beneficiaries of grants awarded under the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme are proportionate to the level of the grant. In particular, the Commission shall ensure that the financial rules and the application and reporting requirements for individual mobility and for partnerships remain user-friendly and sufficiently simple not to restrict access for less advantaged individuals and the institutions or organisations that work with them. 
In particular, the Commission shall provide the National Agencies with criteria which they shall follow in regard to selection and award procedures, as well as contract and payment/audit arrangements, for the funds they manage. These criteria shall take into account the size of the grants made; and where grants are of less than €25 000 they shall provide for simplified systems at all stages involving applicants or beneficiaries. They shall enable National Agencies to determine and limit the detail required from applicants for grants and to issue contracts following the award of grants on a simplified basis which includes only the following elements: 
- the contracting parties; 
- the duration of the contract, which shall be the period of eligibility of the expenditure; 
- the maximum amount of funding awarded; 
- a summary description of the action involved; 
- reporting and audit access requirements. 
Also they shall enable National Agencies to provide that co-financing provided by beneficiaries may take the form of contributions in kind. These shall be verifiable as to fact, but need not be susceptible to financial evaluation. 
1. Actions managed through the National a gency p rocedure 1 
1.1. The Community funds intended to provide financial support under the actions to be managed through the National agency procedure in accordance with Section A Point 1.1 of this Annex, are to be allocated among the Member States in accordance with formulae determined by the Commission in accordance with Article 10(2), which may include elements such as the following: 
265. a minimum amount allocated to each Member State, to be determined in accordance with budgetary availability for the action concerned; 
266. the remainder will be allocated to the various Member States on the basis of: 
(i) the difference in the cost of living between the Member States; 
(ii) the distance between the capital cities of each of the Member States; 
(iii) the level of demand and/or take-up for the Action concerned within each Member State; 
(ivi) each Member State’s total number of: 
- pupils and teachers in school education for the school partnerships and mobility actions of the Comenius programme set out in Article 1918(1)(a) and (b); 
- students and/or graduates in higher education for the mobility of students and intensive programmes actions of the Erasmus programme set out in Article 2422(1)(a)(i) and (iv); 
- teachers in higher education institutions for the mobility of teachers and the mobility of other staff actions of the Erasmus programme set out in Article 2422(1)(a)(ii) and (iii); 
- overall population and number of 15 to 35 year olds in relation to it, for the mobility, and partnerships and bilateral and multilateral projects actions of the Leonardo da Vinci programme set out in Article 2926(1)(a), and (b) and (c). 
- adults for the mobility and partnership actions of the Grundtvig programme set out in Article 3430(1)(a) and (b).; 
(ii) the difference in the cost of living between the Member States; 
(iii) the distance between the capital cities of each of the Member States; 
(iv) the level of demand and/or take-up for the Action concerned within each Member State. 
1.2. These formulae should, as far as possible, be neutral with respect to the different education and training systems of the Member States. 
1.23. The Community funds thus distributed shall be administered by the national agencies provided for in Article 6(2)(b). 
1.34. The Commission, acting in cooperation with the Member States, shall take the necessary measures to encourage balanced participation at Community, national and, where appropriate, regional level and, where appropriate, across the various fields of study. The proportion allocated to these measures shall not exceed 5% of the annual budget for financing each of the actions in question. 
2. Designation of beneficiaries 
The institutions listed in Article 4236(2) of the present Decision are hereby designated beneficiaries of grants under the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme, in accordance with Article 168 of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002. 
The constituent national units of the NARIC network, the Eurydice network, the Euroguidance network, the National Reference Points for Vocational QualificationsSupport Services for the eTwinning Action and the Europass National Centres act as instruments to implement the programme at national level, in conformity with the provisions of Article 54(2)(c) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and of Article 38 of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002. 
3. Types of beneficiary 
In accordance with Article 114(1) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, grants may be awarded to legal persons or to natural persons. TheseIn the case of natural persons, these may take the form of scholarships. 
4. Flat-rate grants, scales of unit costs and prizes 
Flat-rate grants and/or scales of unit costs, as provided for in Article 181(1) of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 may be used in the case of the actions referred to in Article 5. 
Flat-rate grants may be used up to a maximum of €25 000 per grant. They may be combined up to a maximum of €100 000 and/or used in conjunction with scales of unit costs. 
The Commission may provide for the award of prizes in relation to activities undertaken in the framework of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme. 
5. Partnership agreements 
Where actions under this programme are supported by means of framework partnership grants, pursuant to Article 163 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002, such partnerships may be selected and funded for a four-year period, subject to a lightweight renewal procedure. 
6. Public institutions or organisations providing learning opportunities 
All schools and higher education institutions specified by Member States, and all institutions or organisations providing learning opportunities which have received over 50% of their annual revenues from public sources over the last two years, or which are controlled by public bodies or their representatives, shall be treated by the Commission as having the necessary financial, professional and administrative capacity, together with the necessary financial stability, to carry out projects under this programme; they shall not be required to present further documentation to demonstrate this. Such institutions or organisations may be exempted from auditing requirements pursuant to Article 173(4) of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002. 
57 . Bodies pursuing an objective of general European interest 
Where operating grants are awarded under this programme to bodies pursuing an objective of general European interest as defined in Article 162 of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002, these shall, in accordance with Article 113(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, not be subject on renewal to the principle of gradual decrease. 
68 . Applicants’ professional competencies and qualifications 
The Commission may decide in accordance with Article 176(2) of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 that specified categories of beneficiaries have the professional competencies and qualifications required to complete the proposed action or workplan. 
79 . Participation of partners from third countries 
Partners from third countries may participate in multilateral projects, networks or partnerships under the terms of Article 1514(2) at the discretion of the Commission or the national agency concerned. The decision whether to support such partners shall be based on the degree of added value at European level likely to result from their participation in the project, network or partnership in question. 
810 . Minimum allocations 
Subject to Article 1514 of this Decision, the minimum amounts to be allocated to sectoral sub-programmes shall be, in relation to the financial framework set out in that Article: 
Comenius 10%13% 
Erasmus 40% 
Leonardo da Vinci 25% 
Grundtvig 3%4% 
911 . National Agencies 
Community financial assistance shall be provided to support the activities of the national agencies established or designated by the Member States in accordance with Article 6(2)(b). Such assistance may be provided in the form of operating grants and shall not exceed 50% of the total eligible costs of the approved work programme of the national agency. 
In accordance with Article 38(1) of Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002, the function of National Agency may, in third countries participating in the Integrated Lifelong Learning Programme by virtue of Article 7(1) of the current Decision, be discharged of public-sector bodies or private-law bodies with a public-service mission governed by the law of the country concerned. 
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, certification and reporting requirements will be kept to an appropriate minimum necessary level. 
1012 . Technical assistance 
The budgetary envelope of the IntegratedLifelong Learning Programme may also cover expenditure related to preparatory actions, monitoring, control, audit and evaluation directly necessary for the implementation of the programme and for the achievement of its objectives. These may in particular include studies, meetings, information activities, publications, expenditure on informatics networks for the exchange of information and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance to which the Commission may need to have recourse for the implementation of the programme. 
1113 . Anti-fraud provisions 
Commission decisions taken under Articles 9, 21, 26, 31, 36, 39 and 44Article 9, the contracts and agreements resulting from them, as well as agreements with participating third countries, shall provide in particular for supervision and financial control by the Commission (or any representative authorizedauthorised by it), including by OLAFthe European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), and for audits by the Court of Auditors, if necessary on-the-spot. Such controls may be carried out with national agencies, as well, where necessary, as with recipients of grants. 
The beneficiary of an operating grant shall keep available for the Commission all the supporting documents, including the audited financial statement, regarding expenditure incurred during the grant year, for a period of five years following the last payment. The beneficiary of a grant shall ensure that, where applicable, supporting documents in the possession of partners or members be made available to the Commission. 
The Commission may have an audit of the use made of the grant carried out either directly by its own staff or by any other qualified outside body of its choice. Such audits may be carried out throughout the lifetime of the agreement and for a period of five years from the date of payment of the balance. Where appropriate, the audit findings may lead to recovery decisions by the Commission. 
Commission staff and outside personnel authorised by the Commission shall have appropriate right of access, in particular to the beneficiary's offices and to all the information, including information in electronic format, needed in order to conduct such audits. 
The Court of Auditors and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)OLAF shall enjoy the same rights, especially of access, as the Commission. 
In addition, the Commission may carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections under this programme in accordance with Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96. 
For the Community actions financed under this decision, the notion of irregularity referred to in Article 1(2) of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 shall mean any infringement of a provision of Community law or any breach of a contractual obligation resulting from an act or omission by a legal entity, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the Communities or budgets managed by them, by an unjustified item of expenditure. 
LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
Policy area(s): Education and culture Activit(y/ies): Education and training | 
TITLE OF ACTION: COMMUNITY PROGRAMME IN THE FIELD OF LIFELONG LEARNING | 
1. BUDGET LINE(S) + HEADING(S) 
15.02.22 (Lifelong Learning Programme); 15.04.01.22 (Lifelong Learning Programme administrative expenditure); 15.01.04.30 (Executive Agency) 
2. OVERALL FIGURES 
2.1. Total allocation for action : € 6,970 million for commitment 
2.2. Period of application: 
2007-2013 
2.3. Overall multiannual estimate of expenditure: 
(a) Schedule of commitment appropriations/payment appropriations (financial intervention) (see point 6.1.1) 
Cash prices € million 
2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013* | Total | 
Commitments | 820.900 | 876.181 | 939.067 | 979.874 | 1,011.269 | 1,066.753 | 1,099.228 | 6,793.272 | 
Payments | 563.670 | 877.324 | 928.943 | 971.195 | 1,004.141 | 1,055.471 | 1,392.528 | 6,793.272 | 
* 2013 et seq for payments 
(b) Technical and administrative assistance and support expenditure (see point 6.1.2) 
Cash prices € million 
2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013* | Total | 
Commitments | 23.772 | 24.247 | 24.732 | 25.227 | 25.732 | 26.246 | 26.772 | 176.728 | 
Payments | 23.772 | 24.247 | 24.732 | 25.227 | 25.732 | 26.246 | 26.772 | 176.728 | 
* 2013 et seq for payments 
Cash prices € million 
Subtotal a + b | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013* | Total | 
Commitments | 844,672 | 900,428 | 963,799 | 1.005,101 | 1.037,001 | 1.092,999 | 1.126,000 | 6.970,000 | 
Payments | 587,442 | 901,571 | 953,675 | 996,422 | 1.029,873 | 1.081,717 | 1.419,300 | 6.970,000 | 
* 2013 et seq for payments 
(c) Overall financial impact of human resources and other administrative expenditure (see points 7.2 and 7.3) 
Cash prices € million 
2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013 | Total | 
Commitments/ payments | 27.032 | 27.572 | 28.124 | 28.686 | 29.260 | 29.845 | 30.442 | 200.961 | 
Cash prices € million 
TOTAL a+b+c | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013* | Total | 
Commitments | 871.704 | 928.000 | 991.923 | 1,033.787 | 1,066.261 | 1,122.844 | 1,156.442 | 7,170.961 | 
Payments | 614.474 | 929.143 | 981.799 | 1,025.108 | 1,059.133 | 1,111.562 | 1,449.742 | 7,170.961 | 
* 2013 et seq for payments 
2.4. Compatibility with financial programming and financial framework 
[X] Proposal is compatible with the working document of the Commission services of 11 April 2006 on the financial Framework 2007-2013. 
2.5. Financial impact on revenue: 
[X] Proposal has no financial implications (involves technical aspects regarding implementation of a measure) 
3. BUDGET CHARACTERISTICS 
Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contributions form applicant countries | Heading in financial framework | 
Non-comp | Diff | NO | YES | YES | 1A | 
4. LEGAL BASIS 
Treaty establishing the European Community, Articles 149 and 150. 
5. DESCRIPTION AND GROUNDS 
See initial proposal. 
6. FINANCIAL IMPACT 
6.1. Total financial impact on Part B - (over the entire programming period) 
6.1.1. Financial intervention 
Commitments (cash prices) 
2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013 | Total | 
Comenius | 133.200 | 138.527 | 143.531 | 148.653 | 153.924 | 161.689 | 167.313 | 1,046.837 | 
Erasmus | 363.200 | 386.457 | 432.855 | 454.627 | 467.576 | 495.769 | 513.294 | 3,113.778 | 
Leonardo | 209.500 | 225.098 | 237.377 | 247.756 | 257.306 | 270.653 | 277.261 | 1,724.951 | 
Grundtvig | 37.920 | 48.383 | 50.288 | 52.254 | 54.281 | 56.371 | 58.527 | 358.024 | 
Transversal | 53.160 | 53.176 | 49.710 | 50.771 | 51.853 | 55.416 | 55.440 | 369.526 | 
Jean Monnet | 22.540 | 23.133 | 23.871 | 24.349 | 24.836 | 25.332 | 25.839 | 169.900 | 
Operational | 1.380 | 1.407 | 1.435 | 1.464 | 1.493 | 1.523 | 1.554 | 10.256 | 
Total | 820.900 | 876.181 | 939.067 | 979.874 | 1,011.269 | 1,066.753 | 1,099.228 | 6,793.272 | 
The “Operational” line includes preparatory visit grants and evaluations. The costs of operating support for National Agency no longer appears here, but has been incorporated as an overhead of 4.5% in the decentralised parts of the Comenius, Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci and Grundtvig budgets. 
6.1.2. Technical and administrative assistance, support expenditure and IT expenditure (commitment appropriations) | 
Commitments (cash prices) 
Comenius | 
In-service training for teachers | Individual mobility | 72,000 | 1,733 | 124.800 | 
Work-experience for future language teachers | Individual mobility | 12,723 | 4,200 | 53.438 | 
Upper secondary school pupil mobility | Individual mobility | 5,265 | 2,300 | 12.110 | 
Partnerships : School partnerships | Project + mobility | 28,664 | 24,000 | 687.924 | 
Partnerships: Comenius Regio | Project + mobility | 442 | 24,000 | 10.609 | 
Projects : Transfer of innovation | Project | 229 | 260,397 | 59.631 | 
Projects : Development of innovation | Project | 51 | 249,098 | 12.704 | 
Networks | Project | 51 | 427,765 | 21.816 | 
Accompanying measures projects | Project | 64 | 88,250 | 5.648 | 
School Twinning | Project | 189 | 307,709 | 58.157 | 
Total Comenius | 1,046.837 | 
Breakdown | Type of outputs (projects, files ) | Number of outputs (2007-2013) | Average unit cost EUR | Total cost (2007-2013) EUR million | 
Erasmus | 
Mobility: Standard student mobility | Individual mobility | 1,424,885 | 1,433 | 2,041.860 | 
Mobility: Special student mobility | Individual mobility | p.m. | 
Mobility: Student placements in undertakings | Individual mobility | 144,088 | 2,832 | 408.056 | 
Mobility: Short-term teacher mobility | Individual mobility | 235,717 | 703 | 165.709 | 
Mobility: Long-term teacher mobility | Individual mobility | p.m. | 
Mobility: Higher Education Teacher mobility to undertakings | Individual mobility | p.m. | 
Mobility: Other staff | Individual mobility | 10,054 | 1,420 | 14.277 | 
Mobility: Organisation of mobility (e.g. student services, language preparation) | Project | 21,207 | 11,200 | 237.513 | 
Mobility: Intensive language courses | Project + mobility | 3,538 | 3,710 | 13.125 | 
Mobility: Intensive programmes | Project + mobility | 1,794 | 34,850 | 62.514 | 
Projects : Transfer of innovation | Project | 197 | 134,843 | 26.564 | 
Projects : Development of innovation | Project | 48 | 129,604 | 6.221 | 
Multilateral projects: Virtual campuses | Project | 69 | 468,507 | 32.327 | 
Networks | Project | 158 | 376,867 | 59.545 | 
Accompanying measures Projects | Project | 106 | 107,764 | 11.423 | 
Bologna promotion: national teams | Project | 203 | 42,552 | 8.638 | 
Bologna projects and promotion | Project | 70 | 371,514 | 26.006 | 
Total Erasmus | 3,113.778 | 
Breakdown | Type of outputs (projects, files ) | Number of outputs (2007-2013) | Average unit cost EUR | Total cost (2007-2013) EUR million | 
Leonardo da Vinci | 
Mobility of young people in initial VT | Individual mobility | 327,030 | 1,530 | 500.356 | 
Mobility of young workers %amp% recent graduates | Individual mobility | 131,419 | 3,150 | 413.971 | 
Mobility: Trainers | Individual mobility | 88,920 | 1,370 | 121.820 | 
Partnerships | Project + mobility | 2,739 | 47,590 | 130.329 | 
Projects : Transfer of innovation | Project | 1,295 | 345,492 | 446.988 | 
Projects : Development of innovation | Project | 130 | 371,508 | 48.296 | 
Networks | Project | 110 | 269,255 | 29.618 | 
Accompanying measures | Project | 50 | 176,100 | 8.805 | 
Specific calls for proposals related to policy priorities | Project | 105 | 235,886 | 24.768 | 
Total Leonardo da Vinci | 1,724.951 | 
Breakdown | Type of outputs (projects, files ) | Number of outputs (2007-2013) | Average unit cost EUR | Total cost (2007-2013) EUR million | 
Grundtvig | 
Mobility: Staff training mobility | Individual mobility | 10,830 | 1,523 | 16.489 | 
Mobility: Grundtvig assistantships | Individual mobility | 4,400 | 3,423 | 15.062 | 
Mobility: Adult learner mobility | Individual mobility | 25,800 | 1,139 | 29.394 | 
Partnerships | Project + mobility | 3,248 | 47,590 | 154.580 | 
Projects : Transfer of innovation | Project | 400 | 234,850 | 93.940 | 
Projects : Development of innovation | Project | 100 | 222,010 | 22.201 | 
Networks | Project | 100 | 224,910 | 22.491 | 
Accompanying measures | Project | 40 | 96,675 | 3.867 | 
Total Grundtvig | 358.024 | 
Breakdown | Type of outputs (projects, files ) | Number of outputs (2007-2013) | Average unit cost EUR | Total cost (2007-2013) EUR million | 
Transversal programme | 
Transversal programme: KA1 : Policy Development | 
ARION study visits | Individual mobility | 17,251 | 1,279 | 22.065 | 
Cedefop study visits | Individual mobility | p.m. | 
Experimental projects | Project | p.m. | 
Innovation projects | Project | p.m. | 
Fora | Project | p.m. | 
Eurydice | Project | 203 | 144,731 | 29.380 | 
NARICS | Project | 77 | 21,544 | 1.659 | 
Statistics and indicators: Administrative Agreement with the JRC ISPRA (CRELL) | Project | 7 | 1,307,693 | 9.154 | 
Development of statistics and indicators | Project | 130 | 95,938 | 12.472 | 
Studies and comparative research (ex Socrates Action 6 projects) | Project | 60 | 248,883 | 14.933 | 
Studies (Ex-B3-1000) | Project | 90 | 110,922 | 9.983 | 
Presidency conferences + DGs | Project | 90 | 157,000 | 14.130 | 
Support to policy developments (ET2010; EQF, QA, Guidance projects + networks; etc) | Project | 440 | 56,691 | 24.944 | 
Ploteus | Project | 196 | 8,413 | 1.649 | 
Euroguidance | Project | 196 | 84,128 | 16.489 | 
Europass | Project | 196 | 84,128 | 16.489 | 
Total Key Activity 1: Policy Development | 173.347 | 
Transversal programme: KA2 : Languages | 
New language materials | Project | 155 | 339,135 | 52.566 | 
Online courses | Project | p.m. | 
Training tools for language teachers | Project | p.m. | 
Web portal | Project | p.m. | 
Networks | Project | 76 | 264,066 | 20.069 | 
Awareness raising | Project | 92 | 280,598 | 25.815 | 
Competence tests (Language indicator) | Project | 4 | 2,680,750 | 10.723 | 
Conferences | Project | p.m. | 
European language label | Project | 203 | 10,345 | 2.100 | 
Total Key Activity 2 : Languages | 111.273 | 
Transversal programme: KA3 : ICT | 
Multilateral projects | Project | 210 | 222,252 | 46.673 | 
Digital literacy | Project | 47 | 212,191 | 9.973 | 
Networks | Project | p.m. | 
ICT development monitoring | Project | 27 | 276,852 | 7.475 | 
Total Key Activity 3 : ICT | 64.121 | 
Transversal programme: KA4 : Dissemination | 
National projects | Project | p.m. | 
Multilateral projects | Project | 189 | 109,975 | 20.785 | 
Studies | Project | p.m. | 
Total Key Activity 4 : Dissemination | 20.785 | 
Total Transversal programme | 369.526 | 
Breakdown | Type of outputs (projects, files ) | Number of outputs (2007-2013) | Average unit cost EUR | Total cost (2007-2013) EUR million | 
Jean Monnet programme: Jean Monnet Action | 
Key Activity 1: Jean Monnet Action | 
Jean Monnet Chairs, Centres of Excellence and Modules | Project | 842 | 27,038 | 22.766 | 
Associations of Professors and Researchers | Project | 21 | 15,667 | 0.329 | 
Young researchers | Project | p.m. | 
Information and research activities | Project | 245 | 30,453 | 7.461 | 
Total Jean Monnet Action | 30.556 | 
Key Activity 2: Multilateral projects | 
Transnational research groups | Project | 21 | 55,186 | 1.159 | 
Total Multilateral projects | 1.159 | 
Key Activity 3: Operating Grants | 
College of Europe, Bruges %amp% Natolin | Operating Grant | 7 | 4,804,429 | 33.631 | 
European University Institute, Florence | Operating Grant | 7 | 8,300,429 | 58.103 | 
Academy of European Law, Trier | Operating Grant | 7 | 1,747,286 | 12.231 | 
Institute of Public Administration, Maastricht | Operating Grant | 7 | 927,286 | 6.491 | 
Special Needs Agency, Middelfart | Operating Grant | 7 | 845,000 | 5.915 | 
Grants to other institutions | Operating Grant | 35 | 458,171 | 16.036 | 
Other associations | Operating Grant | 56 | 103,179 | 5.778 | 
Total Operating Grants | 138.185 | 
Total Jean Monnet programme | 169.900 | 
Programme-related operational | 10.256 | 
TOTAL COST LLL PROGRAMME | 6,793.272 | 
7. IMPACT ON STAFF AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE 
7.1. Impact on human resources 
Types of post | Staff to be assigned to management of the action using existing and/or additional resources | Total | Description of tasks deriving from the action | 
Number of permanent posts | Number of temporary posts | 
Officials or temporary staff | A B C | 82.0 33.5 59.0 | 0 0 0 | 82.0 33.5 59.0 | Programme implementation | 
Other human resources DNE/AUX | AUX A 2.0 AUX B 16.0 AUX C 9.0 DNE 16.0 | 2.0 16.0 9.0 16.0 | Programme implementation | 
Total | 174.5 | 43.0 | 217.5 | 
The planned staff resources are compatible with the preliminary draft budget 2007. 
7.2. Overall financial impact of human resources – 2005 prices 
Type of human resources | Amount (€ million) | Method of calculation | 
Officials Temporary staff | 18.846 0.000 | €108,000 * 174.5 officials N/A | 
Other human resources (specify budget line) | 0.216 1.728 0.972 0.720 | €108,000 * 2.0 A officials €108,000 * 16.0 B officials €108,000 * 9.0 C officials €45,000 * 16.0 DNEs | 
Total | 22.482 | 
The amounts are total expenditure for twelve months. 
7.3. Other administrative expenditure deriving from the action – 2005 prices 
Budget line (number and heading) | Amount € million | Method of calculation | 
Overall allocation (Title A7) | 
A0701 – Missions | 1.000 | 1,230 missions of up to 2 days at €650 + 200 missions of 1 week at €1,000 | 
A07030 – Meetings | 1.000 | €1,160 per participant (€860 travel + €150 per diem * 2 days) = 860 participants | 
A07031 – Compulsory committees 1 | 1.000 | €860 per participant = 1,160 participants | 
A07032 – Non-compulsory committees | 0 | 
A07040 – Conferences | 0.500 | 
A0705 – Studies and consultations | 0 | 
Other expenditure (specify) | 0 | 
Information systems (A-5001/A-4300) | 
Other expenditure - Part A (specify) | 
Total | 3.500 | 
The amounts are total expenditure for twelve months. 
I. Annual total (7.2 + 7.3) II. Duration of action III. Total cost of action (I x II) | € 25.982 7 years € 181.874 | 
The needs for human and administrative resources shall be covered within the allocation granted to the managing DG in the framework of the annual allocation procedure. 
8. FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION 
See initial proposal. 
9. ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES 
See initial proposal. 
[1] COM(2004) 474, section 2.3 
[2] OJ C , , p. 
[3] OJ C 221, 8.9.2005, p. 134. 
[4] OJ C 164, 5.7.2005, p. 59. 
[5] OJ C , , p. . 
[6] OJ L 146, 11.6.1999, p. 33. Decision as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). 
[7] OJ L 28, 3.2.2000, p. 1. Decision as last amended by Decision No 786/2004/EC (OJ L 138, 30.4.2004, p. 7). 
[8] OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, p. 9. 
[9] OJ L 138, 30.4.2004, p. 31. 
[10] OJ L 390, 31.12.2004, p. 6. 
[11] OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, p. 1. 
[12] COM(2001) 678. 
[13] OJ C 163, 09.07.2002, p. 1. 
[14] OJ C 13, 18.1.2003, p. 2. 
[15] COM(2002) 72. 
[16] COM(2003) 449. 
[17] COM(2004) 101, p. 13. 
[18] OJ C 293 E, 28.2.2002, p. 103. 
[19] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. 
[20] OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 1. 
[21] OJ C 172, 18.06.1999, p1, , p. 
[22] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. 
[23] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. 
[24] OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 1. 
[25] OJ L 39, 13.2.1975. 
[26] OJ L 131, 23.5.1990, p. 1. 
[27] OJ L 146, 11.6.1999, p. 3. 
[28] OJ L 28, 3.2.2000, p. 1. 
[29] OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, p. 9. 
[30] OJ L 138, 30.4.2004, p. 31. 
[31] OJ L 390, 31.12.2004, p. 6. 
