Opinion of the Committee of the Regions on the European Parliament Resolution on Protection of Minorities and Anti-Discrimination Policies in an Enlarged Europe 
Opinion of the Committee of the Regions on the European Parliament Resolution on Protection of Minorities and Anti-Discrimination Policies in an Enlarged Europe 
(2006/C 229/09) 
THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS, 
Having regard to the decision of the European Parliament of 8 June 2005 to consult it on the subject, under the fourth paragraph of Article 265 of the Treaty establishing the European Community; 
Having regard to the decision of its Bureau of 11 October 2005 to instruct its Commission for Constitutional Affairs and European Governance to draw up an opinion on this subject; 
Having regard to the European Parliament's Resolution on protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies in an enlarged Europe, T6-0228/2005; 
Having regard to Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community; 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, signed on 29 October 2004, and in particular to the Charter of Fundamental Rights which constitutes its Part II; 
Having regard to Directives 2000/43/EC and 2000/78/EC implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin and establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation; 
Having regard to its Opinion on the Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on Non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all — A framework strategy COM(2005) 224 final and on the Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and the Council on the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All (2007) Towards a Just Society COM(2005) 225 final — 2005/0107 (COD) (CdR 226/2005 fin); 
Having regard to the European Parliament's resolution on homophobia in Europe (RSP/2005/2666); 
Having regard to its Opinion on the Green Paper on equality and non-discrimination in an enlarged European Union COM(2004) 379 final (CdR 241/2004 fin) [1]; 
Having regard to the recommendations of the EU network of independent experts on fundamental rights in the Thematic Comments No 3: The protection of Minorities in the European Union; 
Having regard to the reports of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) on the situation of migrants, minorities and Roma specifically; 
Having regard to its draft opinion (CdR 53/2006 rev. 1) adopted unanimously on 7 April 2006 by its Commission for Constitutional Affairs, European Governance and the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (rapporteurs: Mr Sovič, Mayor of Maribor and Mr Sinner, Minister of State, Head of the Bavarian State Chancellery; 
1) WHEREAS respect of fundamental rights, cultural and linguistic diversity is a profoundly European asset that has to be preserved throughout the regions of the European Union and constitutes a priority for the CoR; 
2) WHEREAS all forms of discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation must be fought with equal intensity by recalling that all residents contribute to the richness of Europe; 
3) WHEREAS there is a difference between the protection of minorities and non-discrimination policies, equal treatment is a basic right, not a privilege, of all citizens; 
4) WHEREAS it shall be a right of each individual to be different and tolerance and respect should be a general attitude in life and based on reciprocity, not a favour granted to some and not to others; 
5) WHEREAS local authorities have an important role to play in upholding the fundamental right to freedom of assembly; 
6) WHEREAS local authority officials have a special responsibility to set a good example and promote good practice; 
7) WHEREAS local and regional authorities exercise considerable authority in matters pertaining to public records, education, police, health, housing and social assistance, without which fundamental rights could not be safeguarded; 
8) WHEREAS the Committee of the Regions initiated, following the request of the European Parliament, a collection of the good practice at local and regional level, and thus wishes to substantially contribute to the better protection of minorities and the implementation of policies of non-discrimination; 
adopted unanimously the following opinion at its 65th plenary session, held on 14 and 15 June 2006 (meeting of 15 June). 
The Committee of the Regions 
1. General remarks 
1.1 welcomes the European Parliament's resolution and agrees with it that the state of implementation of non-discrimination policies by the Member States is unsatisfactory; recognises however that even if the level of implementation varies in particular Member States, some of them being more proactive than others, the EU, its Member States, as well as regional and local authorities have already developed a comprehensive list of good practice; 
1.2 agrees with the EP's standpoint that various local, regional and national authorities of Member States could better coordinate measures to combat all forms of discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, including anti-Semitism and attacks on minority groups, in particular Roma; 
1.3 recognises that the local and regional authorities face a double challenge: on one hand in view of the responsibility of the regional and local administrations to combat discriminatory practice and to respect the principle of equality in access to individual, economic and social rights and, on the other hand, their active responsibility for promotion of fundamental rights, including the respect of minority rights; 
1.4 underlines that the policies and rules applied by the local authorities have to be non-discriminatory, in law and in fact, and promote social, economic and political integration; 
1.5 recognises that poverty, social exclusion and ghettoisation may lead to extremism, and therefore considers that efficient integration policies, including education and housing measures at a regional and local level, can indirectly help to prevent violent extremism and that special attention should be paid to young people living in urban ghettos; 
1.6 indicates that there are positive actions aiming at ensuring a higher level of protection for members of minorities in several cities, municipalities and regions, which are based on the principle of a multicultural society and awareness of the EU's richness and diversity; thus proposes, taking into account evidence gathered by its members, an initial non-exhaustive catalogue of best practice at local and regional level, which is annexed to the present opinion. 
2. Views and recommendations 
2.1 Promoting diversity and intercultural dialogue — decentralised measures 
2.1.1 considers that regional and local authorities should bring added value to the fight against racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, xenophobia, homophobia and attacks on minority groups, in particular Roma and third-country nationals, by encouraging diversity at grassroots and implementing the principle that diversity generates the wealth of society; 
2.1.2 proposes that local and regional authorities should take appropriate, decentralised measures to increase the level of protection of the rights of minorities as well as to tackle racism and xenophobia in European cities and regions such as: 
- establishing regional and local non-discrimination offices charged of monitoring and recording complaints by people from groups suffering discrimination; 
- distributing basic information on the situation of minorities and non-discrimination policies to a wider public; 
- public presentations on good practice by official representatives from cities, municipalities and regions; 
- activation of the EuropeDirect contact points for the promotion of minorities' rights and non-discrimination measures; 
- organisation of events and festivities aimed at bringing together different cultures, traditions and linguistic groups living in the same area; 
- training programmes for local and regional administrations, teachers and journalists to promote non-discrimination and equal treatment for all citizens; 
- establishment of an easy and direct contact with the administrative services for the members of minorities, where they are likely to experience discrimination; 
2.1.3 supports the Parliament's highlighting of the situation of the Roma as a particular concern; and therefore considers that the Roma community requires special protection, also taken into account its size and specificity; 
2.1.4 believes the integration of the Roma to be a major challenge for regional and local authorities and calls on EU institutions, national governments and local and regional authorities to develop a common integrated and decentralised approach to facilitate political, social and economic integration and at the same time to promote the respect of diversity and tolerance. In this respect, proposes the following measures at local and regional level: 
- developing flexible education strategies in order to enhance as much as feasible the chances of integration; 
- exchange of best practice among these cities and regions where members of the Roma community live; 
- financing of cultural events aimed at publicising the Roma cultural heritage and tradition; 
2.1.5 insists on the importance of a dialogue among religious and ethnic groups at regional and local level aimed at avoiding extremism and segregation, which could also lead to a common understanding of the equality and diversity of European societies; 
2.1.6 supports the Parliament's highlighting of homophobia in Europe as a particular concern, particularly with regard %quot%to a series of worrying events [which] has recently taken place in a number of Member States%quot%. 
2.2 Using and promoting standards and plans for equal treatment 
2.2.1 considers that in order to achieve standards of equality in the provision of services, local and regional authorities need to consider setting policy targets and indicators that would help to measure progress in policy implementation and wishes to contribute to the drawing-up of such indicators; 
2.2.2 recognises that standards and plans for equal treatment aimed at intercommunity equality strategies as well as race, gender, disability and sexual orientation equality will better recognise the importance of fair treatment and equal access to local government services and employment which have been developed as a tool to enable local and regional authorities to mainstream gender, race and disability into municipal policy and practice at all levels; 
2.2.3 considers that local and regional authorities should deliver high quality local services accessible to all and responsive to the needs of the diverse neighbourhoods and communities of cities and provide a framework through which community cohesion and sustainability can flourish, by recurring to already identified best practice, such as: 
- legal aid in the form of advice relating to the status of individuals; 
- financing of community reception centres; 
- setting of integration fora with public discussions to increase contacts between citizens/residents and new arrivals; 
- introducing consultative bodies against discrimination and special advisors responsible for cases of race and gender discrimination. 
2.3 Access to language learning, education and the job market 
2.3.1 points out that education is a fundamental means of integrating minorities into the social and political life of the countries in which they live and of teaching tolerance and respect for diversity, and that local and regional authorities play a vital role in this area; 
2.3.2 urges the Member States, in line with the European Parliament, to do their utmost to ensure the effective integration of the children of refugees, asylum-seekers and immigrants into their education systems. Public authorities should also help to ensure that every opportunity is given to the members of minorities to acquire the linguistic skills required to integrate successfully; 
2.3.3 emphasises that acquiring sufficient language skills in the official language of the community where minorities live increases the possibility of effective integration and argues that the local and regional authorities should, within their remit, ensure — whenever appropriate — integration programmes with, inter alia, optional courses in the official languages, free of charge, even in kindergartens; 
2.3.4 is concerned about the dispiriting effects of high youth unemployment and recommends the use of positive measures, in particular with regard to access to the job market for all disadvantaged groups; 
2.3.5 proposes to activate its members' network to advocate: 
- traineeships in the municipalities for people belonging to minorities; 
- a system of scholarships for the best students from ethnic minorities or any disadvantaged groups; 
- special language programmes for migrants' children; 
2.3.6 takes note of the existing good practice at regional and local level in the field of education and access to the job market such as: 
- admission of children of any nationality to public schools; 
- free access to language learning to anyone, guaranteed by the municipalities; 
- equal access to education also for disabled people, non-EU citizens and the older population in accordance with the principle of life-long learning; 
- educative projects aimed at combating discrimination; 
- courses offered in the language of the minority group; 
- virtual bureaux for integration policy; 
- actions to combat employment discrimination at the level of local employment service e.g. by sending employers anonymous details of job seekers, where applicants' surnames are left out. 
2.4 Access to social housing and public services 
2.4.1 calls on the Member States to set up a national database, or national good practice guidelines for authorities with housing responsibilities, for the systematic and rigorous collection of data on migrant and minority ethnic housing; 
2.4.2 calls on the local and regional authorities to step up their efforts to ensure that non-discriminatory measures are applied, and in particular: 
- allocating municipal housing to families of any nationality; 
- avoiding segregation in housing and, if necessary resorting to positive discrimination; 
- establishing action plans at local and regional level to guarantee equal access to housing; 
2.4.3 underlines the best practice of local and regional authorities aimed at ensuring an equal access to housing and public services to all citizens, such as: 
- providing technical and legal guarantees and insurance policy for all the groups of population; 
- allocating communal flats to migrants and third countries nationals; 
- setting up counselling organisations to improve housing access for refugees and migrants; 
- launching programmes of non-profit rental housing; 
- ensuring the participation of migrants in the public fora where housing sector policies are discussed; 
- securing an equal access and an equal quality of public services for each member of local communities. 
2.5 Active access to political and civil life 
2.5.1 strongly supports the participation of members of minority groups in political life at all levels of governments (local, regional, national and European), especially their greater involvement in local politics. To this end, the structures and decision-making procedures of local and regional authorities could be made more transparent and accessible so as to encourage the participation of minorities, and the unrestricted freedom of assembly and expression; 
2.5.2 invites the local and regional authorities to encourage the representatives of the different ethnic groups of immigrants to play a more responsible role in the society of the Member States and their own regional and local authorities; 
2.5.3 welcomes initiatives undertaken in a number of cities and regions which have introduced specific measures to promote the exercise of political rights such as the: 
- creation of advisory bodies; 
- presence of one or more representatives of minorities in city councils; 
- full participation of members of minorities in local and municipal elections; 
- creation of sites of communal activity between citizens/residents, migrants and any disadvantaged groups; 
2.5.4 invites to implement concrete measures including the creation of conditions to allow representative institutions of the members of national minorities to actually take part in the development and implementation of policies and programmes concerning the education and occupational integration of minorities; 
2.5.5 underlines the responsibility of local and regional medias in promoting tolerance and respect for diversity and their role in ensuring effective communication and stimulating a more active participation of members of minorities in the local political and civil life. 
2.6 Promoting data collection at regional and local level 
2.6.1 considers that the collection of data disaggregated by ethnicity is essential for the evaluation of the implementation of non-discrimination policies; 
2.6.2 repeats its call to the Commission to publish a vademecum of non-discrimination good practice for local authorities as employers, providers and procurers of goods and services and as leaders in community cohesion and non-discrimination; such a vademecum to include the duties of local authorities with regard to upholding fundamental rights, including freedom of assembly, and the special responsibility of local authorities to set a good example in combating hate speech, or speech likely to produce the effect of legitimising, spreading or promoting racial hatred, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, homophobia or other forms of discrimination or hatred based on intolerance. In this context offers the Commission its support in collecting data at regional and local level; 
2.6.3 considers that better data collection, monitoring and evaluation is important to develop effective policies to promote equality and to tackle all forms of discrimination and reiterates that local and regional authorities must be involved, alongside the Commission, in developing comparable quantitative data to identify and highlight the extent of existing inequalities. 
3. Final remarks 
3.1 underlines the importance of the improvement of inter-institutional cooperation among EU institutions, the Council of Europe, the UN and the OSCE for the effective protection of minorities and stresses the role of NGOs and national, transnational and European associations of regional and local authorities in this process; 
3.2 wishes the regional dimension to be taken into consideration more extensively in the reports of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) and the EU Network of Independent Experts on Fundamental Rights; 
3.3 considers that the EU could supplement Member States' activities at local, regional and national levels by allocating suitable appropriations, and that the Member States could delegate part of their decision-making powers on the Structural Funds to regional and local authorities, in the spirit of the decentralisation policy conducted by the EU; 
3.4 calls for appropriate financing of activities at local and regional level aimed at combating discrimination and ensuring that the rights of all citizens are protected. 
Brussels, 15 June 2006 
The President 
of the Committee of the Regions 
Michel Delebarre 
[1] OJ C 71, 22.3.2005, p. 62. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
APPENDIX 
THE PROTECTION OF MINORITIES AT THE REGIONAL AND LOCAL LEVEL: GOOD PRACTICE [1] 
Many of the regional and local good practice aimed at improving the situation of minorities and promoting non-discrimination policies are a result of a survey of CoR members and regional and municipal authorities, organisations and associations. The CoR wishes to develop this limited list, and thus utilise it in EU actions promoting standards for equal treatment for all. 
1. Promoting diversity and intercultural dialogue 
— In Germany, the Bavarian Forum has developed a series of activities under the motto %quot%integration in dialogue%quot% (i.e. public discussions). The aim of these activities is to increase contact between natives and foreigners and avoid the creation of cultural and linguistic ghettos, so-called %quot%parallel societies%quot%. 
— In France, in the city of Corps-Nuds, newcomers are recognised as part of the community and are encouraged to take part in all local social activities. In addition, children of any nationality are admitted to the public schools. The access to public education is guaranteed also to handicapped persons and adult jobseekers, in line with the principle of life-long learning. 
— In Bremen (Germany) several events have been held relating to integration policy. What they all have in common is that they promote intercultural and interreligious dialogue as a way of both tackling the problem of xenophobia and countering trends towards radicalisation and segregation. 
- Youth Night: This takes place once a year in Bremen's town hall in memory of the victims of National Socialism. The overall aim of Youth Night is to combine a look back at the past with a commitment to ensuring that the modern world is a humane one. On average, up to 3000 people take part in Youth Night, three quarters of whom are young people. It has a different theme each year, and past themes include, for example, %quot%Meeting Sinti and Roma%quot%. Alongside accounts from contemporary witnesses, exhibitions and discussion forums, there are also plays, sports displays and concerts featuring all types of music, from classical to hip hop: something to suit all tastes and age groups. 
- The Religion Street Map: One successful spin-off of Youth Night is the Religion Street Map project, which is run by young people for young people. This project was set up by young people in Bremen from different religious groups; it aims to facilitate an exchange between religions and a better understanding of the beliefs concerned. It provides a forum for young people from all of Bremen's religious groups, enabling them to get to know each other while they are working together on the map, to interact with one another and to celebrate simply being together. They have set up an interactive internet portal which includes a street map showing the locations of all churches, mosques and community halls for each part of the city In addition, there is a discussion forum on the Internet in which young people are literally able to exchange views on God and the world. The Religion Street Map has shown that there is a desire for interreligious dialogue between young people. There are not enough opportunities for such dialogue in religious education which is divided along religious lines. Young religious people want to learn about each other's beliefs and lives through dialogue and they want this dialogue to be on their level, without any hierarchy or authority being involved. 
- The Bremen Islam Week: Special consideration is given in Bremen to the integration of Muslim citizens. During Islam Week, Muslims are given the opportunity to present their beliefs and their culture to the public. Everyone has the chance to learn about Islam, as it is worshipped and practised in Bremen; a multitude of presentations, discussions and exhibitions invite you to learn, to debate and to meet Muslims in an informal setting. The idea is not to talk about Muslims but to talk to them. Critical discussion is not only permitted but welcomed. 
- Bremen town hall reception to mark the end of fasting: At the end of the fasting month of Ramadan, the senate of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen invites the city's Muslim citizens to a reception in the town hall to join members of other religious communities in celebrating the festival marking the end of fasting. The invitation is always enthusiastically taken up by Muslims and is proof of the recognition that Muslims enjoy in the city, with their cultural heritage and their faith. 
— The %quot%Oporto without frontiers%quot% scheme (Portugal) is a strategy for analysing, reflecting on and addressing the issue of immigration in the city. Work is carried out with 33 immigrants' associations representing the various immigrant communities in Oporto. Activities carried out under this scheme pursue a variety of objectives, with a view to the integrated and participatory social development of all players, so as to maintain and promote social cohesion. We here highlight two of these activities, because of their regular nature and their involvement of immigrant associations in the planning, development and evaluation stages: 
- %quot%A story to tell%quot%: The aim of this activity is to identify and collect significant stories from the cultural heritage of these communities, and to bring them to a wider public by staging regular recreational and performance-based evenings at prestigious sites in the city. 
- Meeting of communities: The main aims of this activity are to help to cement relations between the different communities, and to celebrate and promote the cultural diversity of the city of Oporto. Socio-cultural and information events are held, involving both local and foreign residents in exhibitions and sales of cultural and gastronomic products. This is an annual event, which is held at a well-known building in the city and is attended by hundreds of people. 
— The Inter-Nation programme in Wallonia (Belgium) is based upon interculturalism and the acquisition of specific professional skills; it is aimed at getting those job seekers into work who are still all too often underused on the labour market. The programme is specifically concerned with promoting the intercultural assets of people of foreign origin in jobs with an international connection. At the same time, Inter-Nation provides businesses with skilled staff who are capable of supporting them in their operations. 
— The city of Munich developed the project %quot%active together in Neuperlach%quot% turning residents' gardens into sites of communal activity for Germans and migrants living in the same area. This project increases communication and integration between people of different cultural, ethnic and racial backgrounds. 
— In the Netherlands, the city of Amsterdam launched the project %quot%The Second World War in perspective%quot% aimed at combating discrimination and anti-Semitism and increasing tolerance and respect. 
2. Using and promoting standards and plans for equal treatment 
— In Spain, the Community of Madrid is implementing the 2006-2008 Regional Integration Plan, drawn up with the support of all the Community's social sectors and involving more than 1000 representatives and experts, to ensure the integration of immigrants. It is the first time that a Spanish community has earmarked more than EUR 4,4 billion for the integration of immigrants. All immigrants, regardless of their administrative situation, have free access to Madrid's education and healthcare systems just like any other citizen of Madrid. Furthermore, the Community of Madrid has created centres providing social assistance to immigrants (CASI) to strengthen the network of basic assistance available for particularly vulnerable immigrants and established centres for the participation and integration of immigrants (CEPIS) to promote, boost and showcase the cultural wealth of immigrant communities. 
— The city of Vienna created virtual bureaux for integration policy. In addition, a special department %quot%Integration and Diversity%quot% was established to develop diversity management and to organise and expand counselling services for new migrants who settled down in the city. This department cooperates with migrant organisations and promotes integration-relevant measures and projects such as language acquisition measures. 
— In Italy, in the region of Emilia Romagna, consultative antidiscrimination bodies have been introduced and local government bodies have introduced special advisors with the power to intervene in cases of race and gender discrimination. 
3. Access to language learning, education and the job market 
— In France, in the Rennes-Metropolitan area, various kinds of activities and education are offered in order to ensure new arrivals are integrated in the local community. In addition, a budget is set aside for the creation of community reception centres. 
— The city of Vienna (Austria) offers for new migrants alphabetisation courses and basic German-language courses particularly for women and with day care for children. 
— In Škocjan (Slovenia) an integration policy has been introduced through a programme aimed at teaching local people about xenophobia. 
— In order to combat employment discrimination, the French Rhone-Alps Prefecture has encouraged the local employment service to send employers anonymous details of job seekers, where applicants' surnames are left out. 
4. Access to housing and public services 
— In Vienna, Austria, the city's public services are equally accessible and of equal quality for each member of the community, regardless of nationality, gender, race and religion. In addition, municipalities supported and financed projects promoting and developing pluralistic policies. The city promotes cultural, linguistic and community diversity and legal aid in the form of advice relating to the status of individuals is available to each member of the community. 
— In the city of Barcelona public services are accessible for every registered person, even if not in posses of residential papers. The Catalan local authorities try to adapt the existing local services to migrants' needs and targets, and in particular throughout technical support to reception and settlement, financial support to diversity and citizenship policies as well as knowledge services for decision making. In addition, the Diputació de Barcelona established a Plan of Diversity and Citizenship as well as a Local Network on Diversity and Citizenship. 
— In France, the city of Corps-Nuds allocates municipal housing to specific groups of any nationality, including Roma, as part of the housing policy of the urban area community to which it belongs. 
— The Catalonian government created the %quot%La Red de Bolsa de Vivienda Social%quot% aimed at improving access to decent housing for all social groups, providing technical and legal guarantees, an insurance policy and a guarantee for a maximum of six months. 
— In Austria, the city of Salzburg and the towns of Krems and Guntramsdorf allocate communal flats to migrants and third countries nationals. The counselling organisation %quot%Wohndrehscheibe%quot%, which works to improve housing access for refugees and migrants was named in 2004 as one of the 107 %quot%best practices%quot% considered for the Dubai International Award. 
— In the Czech Republic, the %quot%Programme for the Construction of Supported Housing%quot% requires municipalities to support the construction of new houses and provide them with social services, thus helping groups at risk of social exclusion. 
— Since 1994, the Community of Madrid in Spain has been developing a specific housing mediation programme that supports accommodation of the region's immigrant population. It provides immigrants with decent housing, establishing multiple systems of mediation and guarantees for the acquisition of housing from the property market for the immigrant community. The programme also includes access to shared housing and facilitates the formation of cooperative groups which can then go on to rent or co-own property. 
— In Slovenia, the %quot%Programme for stimulating the guarantee of non-profit rental housing in municipalities for 2005%quot% invites municipalities to build and renovate non-profit rental housing. 
— In the city of Ghent, a non-discriminatory declaration on housing has been signed by public and private parties to ensure the elimination and prevention of every kind of discrimination in the housing sector. 
— In the city of Verona, the cooperative %quot%La casa per gli Extracomunitari%quot% offers houses to migrants and ensures their participation in the public fora where housing sector policies are discussed. 
5. Active access to political and civil life 
— In Italy, the city of Turin has opened the municipal elections to all legal foreigners who have lived in the city for the last 6 years. 
— In Denmark, according to the Danish Integration Act the municipalities have the possibility to establish integration councils which have the authority to make consultative reports on the integration initiatives and achievements in the municipality in general or about the introduction programmes offered by the municipality. The integration councils consist of minimum seven members resided in the municipality and appointed by the municipal council (kommunalbestyrelse). The members are appointed amongst members from local associations of immigrants or refugees. Members connected to school boards and other local associations are also appointed. Establishing integration councils is seen as first step in the integration of immigrants and refugees in the political process. Experiences show that many immigrant and refugee members of the integration councils are later involved in the more formal political process, such as the municipal council. Around 60 Danish municipalities have chosen to establish integration councils. 
— Municipal committee for communities in Oporto (Portugal) is an advisory body reporting to the City Council. Its role is to provide an interactive platform for information and debate between the foreign communities living in Oporto, and between them and the local authority. Through these meetings, the local authority learns these associations' opinions about ideas for projects which it is considering with a view to facilitating the integration of the communities concerned. Participants also discuss some of the main obstacles which the associations face when carrying out their own projects. The associations representing Oporto's foreign communities showed a keen interest in the municipal committee from the outset. A total of 13 associations are currently represented on it; it is thus fair to say that the local authority is working actively with quite a representative section of the foreign community in Oporto. The committee has also sparked considerable institutional interest: the high commissioner for immigration and ethnic minorities has a seat on it with observer status. There is thus a solid working base which it is hoped to build on in the future. This advisory body is a vital part of Oporto City Council's policy for getting closer to its citizens, and indicates the priority it gives to promoting active citizenship and participatory democracy. Its aim is to make the committee as representative as possible of the various foreign communities that live in the city, and more associations are invited to join: those wishing to do so should send their application to the Chairman of the City Council. 
— In Spain, el Gobierno del Principado de Asturias ensures social benefits are available to all individuals living within its territory, provides technical and economic support for the development of human resources and has introduced preventive measures to facilitate the social participation of various groups who do or may suffer discrimination. A Plan for Social Inclusion has been drawn up to provide for specific measures promoting the social integration of minorities in the housing, education, health and social services sectors. 
— In Italy, representatives of minorities seat in the Florence City Council, i.e. the leader of the Senegalese community in the Tuscany. 
— In Germany, to facilitate integration, a system of regular monitoring of the situation of minorities has been introduced in Berlin. The city of Berlin launched the %quot%Neighbourhood Fund%quot%, which constitutes a successful example of model for improving public participation and integration. 
6. The protection of the Roma minority 
Belgium 
— In Belgium, the Decree of the Flemish Council on equality and opportunity in education allocates extra funds to certain schools on the basis of the number of students belonging to disadvantaged groups, including Roma. 
— In 1997, the Flemish government created a Flemish Commission for Mobile Dwelling intended to formulate concrete proposals providing a solution to problems related to housing and the development of sites for travellers. 
— In Flanders, in accordance with the decree on the Flemish policy towards ethnic and cultural minorities, five %quot%traveller units%quot% have been created at regional integration centres. These units are aimed at evaluating and implementing the policy on minorities. In Wallonia, a Travellers Mediation Centre of the Walloon Region was created in 2001 to supervise all projects concerning travellers and to mediate between travellers and the public authorities. 
Czech Republic 
— In the Czech Republic, the %quot%Programme for the Construction of Supported Housing%quot% requires municipalities to support the construction of new houses and provide them with social services, thus helping groups at risk of social exclusion. 
— A summer camp for Roma children was organised in 2004 by the NGO %quot%Mutual Coexistence%quot% and the force of the Ostrava region. The aim was to improve communication and collaboration between police and the Roma. 
France 
— In France, in a few schools there is a special teacher, who facilitates the integration of Roma children. Some school buses have been set aside for the transportation of Roma students and their effective participation in classes is monitored. 
Germany 
— In Germany, the Central Council of German Sinti and Roma is an umbrella organisation that brings together nine land associations and several regional and local associations. It represents and defends the interests of community committees. 
Greece 
— The city of Patras has adopted important measures to protect the Roma minority, such as: the introduction of regular medical visits and vaccination, the creation of programmes facilitating the access of local Roma to the labour market, the formulation of an active housing policy that includes government rent support. 
Hungary 
— In Hungary, the local government and local minority government of Ozd launched a programme to renovate an area of extreme deterioration and social exclusion. 
Slovenia 
— In Slovenia, the constitution guarantees that minorities can use their own language as an official language in the area where they live. This applies to the Hungarian and Italian minorities. These two minorities also have their own representatives in the national parliament. 
— Through the Office for National Minorities, the government is preparing legal measures concerning the special status, special rights and protection of the Roma Community living in this country. It is possibly the first in the EU to do so. Under the Local Self-Government Act and the Local Elections Act, Roma people in the Republic of Slovenia have, since this term of office, been able to elect councillors to represent the Roma Community in the municipal councils governing areas where autochthonous Roma live. Within the framework of the government's Programme of Measures for Assisting the Roma, the municipality of Rogašovci will implement a programme of public initiatives %quot%about the Roma for the Roma%quot%, including public financing of projects aimed at resolving public utility infrastructure problems, educational, social and cultural issues and providing legal assistance for the Roma. 
— The Educational Research Institute, based in Ljubljana, created the project %quot%Integration of Roma children into Mainstream Education in Slovenia%quot%. The project's objective is to improve the educational prospects of Roma children in pre-schools and primary schools in the Dolenjska region. 
Spain 
— In Spain, the Programme %quot%Prolloguer%quot%, initiated by the Catalonian government, is intended to support the Roma and other groups who experience discrimination. The logic of this Programme is quite simple: empty flats are bought, restored and rented to immigrants and disadvantaged social groups. 
— The Community of Madrid has been running the APOI project for the social integration of east European ethnic minorities since 1999. The integration process is based on three phases: the welcome phase, the settlement phase, including the search for employment and housing, and the follow-up phase. APOI pursues one line of action at four levels: individual, family, group and community. The approach is active and participatory, involving immigrants in their own integration, and any problems encountered are tackled on an individual and comprehensive basis. 
— The city council of Barcelona has created the Municipal Council of the Gypsy Community in Barcelona, which is a consultative body aimed at increasing the well-being and quality of life of the Roma living in the city. 
United Kingdom 
— In the United Kingdom, a Gypsy/Traveller Achievement Project has been undertaken to engage parents, interview children and modify or adapt academic programs to increase the involvement of Roma students. The majority of local authorities have a Traveller Education Service, aimed at encouraging Roma education. In particular, one school has initiated a flexible programme of out-of-school sessions on literacy, maths and outdoor activities and one authority has produced packs for aiding the progression from primary to secondary schools. 
[1] Sources: information gathered by the CoR members; %quot%Thematic Comments No 3: The protection of Minorities in the European Union%quot% of the EU network of independent experts on fundamental rights (2005); and the Annual Report of the EUMC, Part II %quot%Racism and Xenophobia in the EU Member States trends, developments and good practice%quot%(2005). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
