Notice of initiation of an expiry review of the anti-dumping measures applicable to imports of ethanolamines originating in the United States of America 
(2005/C 183/05) 
Following the publication of a notice of impending expiry [1] of the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of ethanolamines originating in the United States of America, ("country concerned"), the Commission has received a request for review pursuant to Article 11(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 [2] on protection of dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community ("the basic Regulation"), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 [3]. 
1. Request for review 
The request was lodged on 25 April 2005 by CEFIC ("the applicant") on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 75 %, of the total Community production of ethanolamines. 
2. Product 
The product under review is ethanolamines originating in the United States of America ("the product concerned"), currently classifiable within CN codes ex29221100 (Taric: 2922110010), ex29221200 (Taric: 2922120010) and 29221310. These CN codes are given only for information. 
3. Existing measures 
The measures currently in force are definitive anti-dumping duties imposed by Council Regulation (EC) No 229/94 [4], Regulation as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 153/2003 [5]. 
4. Grounds for the review 
The request is based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would be likely to result in a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry. 
The allegation of continuation of dumping in respect of the United States of America is based on a comparison of normal value, established on the basis of domestic prices, with the export prices of the product concerned to the Community. 
On this basis, the dumping margin calculated is significant. 
With regard to the recurrence of dumping, it is also alleged that the exports to other third countries, i.e., Norway and Turkey, are made at dumped prices. 
The applicant further alleges the likelihood of further injurious dumping. In this respect the applicant presents evidence that, should measures be allowed to lapse, the current import level of the product concerned is likely to increase due to the recent investments in production capacity in the country concerned and world wide. 
It is also alleged that the flow of imports of the product concerned is likely to rise due to the saturation in traditional markets other than the EU (i.e. Mexico, Brazil and Asia). All this can lead to a redirection of exports from other third countries to the Community. 
In addition, the applicant alleges that the removal of injury is mainly due to the existence of measures and that any recurrence of substantial imports at dumped prices from the country concerned would likely lead to a recurrence of injury of the Community industry should measures be allowed to lapse. 
5. Procedure 
Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that sufficient evidence exists to justify the initiation of an expiry review, the Commission hereby initiates a review in accordance with Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation. 
5.1. Procedure for the determination of likelihood of dumping and injury 
The investigation will determine whether the expiry of the measures would be likely, or unlikely, to lead to a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury. 
(a) Questionnaires 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for its investigation, the Commission will send questionnaires to the Community industry and to any association of producers in the Community, to the exporters/producers in the United States of America, to any association of exporters/producers, to the importers, to any association of importers named in the request or which cooperated in the investigation leading to the measures subject to the present review, and to the authorities of the exporting country concerned. 
In any event, all interested parties should contact the Commission forthwith by fax in order to find out whether they are listed in the request and, if necessary, request a questionnaire within the time limit set in point 6(a), given that the time limit set in point 6(b) applies to all interested parties. 
(b) Collection of information and holding of hearings 
All interested parties are hereby invited to make their views known, submit information other than questionnaire replies and to provide supporting evidence. This information and supporting evidence must reach the Commission within the time limit set in point 6(b). 
Furthermore, the Commission may hear interested parties, provided that they make a request showing that there are particular reasons why they should be heard. This request must be made within the time limit set in point 6(c). 
5.2. Procedure for the assessment of Community interest 
In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation and in the event that the likelihood of a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury is confirmed, a determination will be made as to whether to maintain, or repeal the anti-dumping measures would not be against the Community interest. For this reason the Community industry, importers, their representative associations, representative users and representative consumer organisations, provided that they prove that there is an objective link between their activity and the product concerned, may, within the time limits set in point 6(b), make themselves known and provide the Commission with information. The parties which have acted in conformity with the previous sentence may request a hearing, setting the particular reasons why they should be heard, within the time limit set in point 6(c). It should be noted that any information submitted pursuant to Article 21 will only be taken into account if supported by factual evidence at the time of submission. 
6 Time limits 
(a) For parties to request a questionnaire or other claim forms 
All interested parties who did not cooperate in the investigation leading to the measures subject to the present review should request a questionnaire as soon as possible, but not later than 15 days after the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(b) For parties to make themselves known, to submit questionnaire replies and any other information 
All interested parties, if their representations are to be taken into account during the investigation, must make themselves known by contacting the Commission, present their views and submit questionnaire replies or any other information within 40 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union, unless otherwise specified. Attention is drawn to the fact that the exercise of most procedural rights set out in the basic Regulation depends on the party's making itself known within the aforementioned period. 
(c) Hearings 
All interested parties may also apply to be heard by the Commission within the same 40-day time limit. 
7. Written submissions, questionnaire replies and correspondence 
All submissions and requests made by interested parties must be made in writing (not in electronic format, unless otherwise specified) and must indicate the name, address, e-mail address, telephone and fax, and/or telex numbers of the interested party. All written submissions, including the information requested in this notice, questionnaire replies and correspondence provided by interested parties on a confidential basis shall be labelled as "Limited" [6] and, in accordance with Article 19(2) of the basic Regulation, shall be accompanied by a non-confidential version, which will be labelled "FOR INSPECTION BY INTERESTED PARTIES". 
Commission address for correspondence: 
European Commission 
Directorate General for Trade 
Directorate B 
Office: J-79 5/16 
B-1049 Brussels 
Fax (32-2) 295 65 05 
8. Non-cooperation 
In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, provisional or final findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available. 
Where it is found that any interested party has supplied false or misleading information, the information shall be disregarded and use may be made of the facts available. If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated. 
9. Schedule of the investigation 
The investigation will be concluded, according to Article 11(5) of the basic Regulation within 15 months of the date of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
[1] OJ C 276, 11.11.2004, p. 2. 
[2] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1. 
[3] OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12. 
[4] OJ L 28, 2.2.1994, p. 40. 
[5] OJ L 25, 31.1.2003, p. 23. 
[6] This means that the document is for internal use only. It is protected pursuant to Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43). It is a confidential document pursuant to Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6 of the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (Anti-dumping Agreement). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
