Publication of an application for registration pursuant to Article 6(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin 
(2005/C 240/06) 
This publication confers the right to object to the application pursuant to Articles 7 and 12d of the abovementioned Regulation. Any objection to this application must be submitted via the competent authority in a Member State, in a WTO member country or in a third country recognized in accordance with Article 12(3) within a time limit of six months from the date of this publication. The arguments for publication are set out below, in particular under 4.6, and are considered to justify the application within the meaning of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92. 
SUMMARY 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No 2081/92 
"PATACA DE GALICIA" OR "PATATA DE GALICIA". 
EC No: ES/00205/ 06.09.2001 
PDO ( ) PGI (X) 
This summary has been drawn up for information purposes only. For full details, in particular of producers of the PGI concerned, please consult the complete version of the product specification obtainable at national level or from the European Commission [1]. 
1. Responsible department in the Member State: 
Name: | Ministerio de Agricultura, Pesca y Alimentación Dirección General de Alimentación Subdirección General de Denominaciones de Calidad y Relaciones Interprofesionales y Contractuales | 
Address: | Paseo Infanta Isabel, 1, E-28071 Madrid | 
Tel.: | (34) 913 47 53 94 | 
Fax: | (34) 913 47 54 10 | 
2. Group: 
Name : S.A.T. N447 XUGA — A Limia. 
Address : Porto Alto. Xinzo de Limia. Ourense. 
Name : Cooperativa de Santaballa 
Address : Santaballa. Vilalba. Lugo. 
Composition : Producers/processors (x) others ( ) 
3. Type of product: 
Class 1.6. Fruit, vegetables and cereals — potato. 
4. Specification: 
(Summary of requirements under Article 4(2)) 
Name : "Pataca de Galicia" or "Patata de Galicia". 
Description - oval to round form, 
- shallow eyes, 
- thin, smooth, bright yellow skin, 
- white flesh, 
- texture: firm to the touch, creamy when cooked, substantial in the mouth, 
- suitability for consumption: excellent, due to high dry-matter content and quality of colour, aroma and taste when cooked, 
- other characteristics: over 18 % dry matter and less than 0,4 % reducing sugars. 
Geographical area - "Bergantiños": comprising the Municipalities of Carballo, Coristanco, Laracha, Malpica and Ponteceso (in the Province of La Coruña). 
- "Terra Cha-A Mariña": the entirety of the Municipalities of Abadín, Alfoz, Barreiros, Cospeito, Foz, Lourenzá Mondoñedo, Ribadeo, Trabada, Valadouro, Vilalba and Xermade (Province of Lugo). 
- "Lemos": the Municipalities of Monforte, Pantón and Saviñao (Province of Lugo). 
- A Limia: the entirety of the Municipalities of Baltar, Os Blancos, Calvos de Randín, Porqueira, Rairíz de Veiga, Sandiás, Sarreaus, Trasmiras, Vilar de Santos and Xinzo de Limia; and the parishes of Coedo and Torneiros in the Municipality of Allaríz; the parishes of Atas, Cualedro, Lucenza, Vilela and A Xironda in the Municipality of Cualedro; the parishes of Bóveda, Padreda, Seiró and Vilar de Barrio in the Municipality of Vilar de Barrio and the parishes of A Abeleda, Bobadela a Pinta, A Graña and Sobradelo in the Municipality of Xunqueira de Ambía (Province of Ourense). 
Proof of origin : 
The only potatoes eligible are Kennebecs for human consumption, grown from certified seed, or from the controlled re-utilisation of seed from the same holding, on suitable (disease-free) land located in the aforementioned subzones and registered with the Consejo Regulador (Regulatory Board). 
Likewise only warehouses and packaging plants located in the said subzones and registered with the Consejo Regulador may package the product in question. 
The potatoes are stored and packed in the subzones concerned in order to conserve their specific characteristics. Storage and packing facilities are traditionally located in the districts growing the best quality product, which allows for smoother and more efficient operation of the inspection body. The aim is also to minimise the risk of deterioration of the product during transport (increased risk of bumps, inappropriate temperatures, etc.) and unsuitable storage conditions. 
The Consejo Regulador will, based on standard EN-45011's general criteria for product certification bodies, guarantee product traceability through a programme of inspection, identification and monitoring of the land sown (as given in the annual sowing declaration). It will also commission an outside company (extraneous to the sector) to conduct a quality control and improvement programme covering storage, handling, packaging and labelling. 
Method of production : 
The final product must meet the following minimum quality criteria: typical Kennebec appearance; whole, healthy and clean; free from cuts and bruises and with well-formed skins; firm and eyeless; no external defects, spots, nicks, deformations or discoloration; sufficient humidity; no extraneous tastes or smells. 
Production must follow traditional methods throughout; the same plot may not be sown two years in succession; only certified seed or seed from the holding may be used; each plant must be given 75 × 32-35 cm of space; fertilisers must be organic with a correct C-N balance being maintained; earthing up is obligatory; there may be no watering in the 30 days prior to harvesting. 
The maximum permitted yield for marketing under the PGI is 22 t/ha for non-irrigated land and 35 t/ha for irrigated land. 
Produce must be sorted and packaged according to diameter (always between 40 and 80 mm) and place of origin. Packaging must be prior-approved by the Consejo Regulador, and feature sizes of 15, 10, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 kg net weight (25 kg is allowable for customers in the restaurant or hotel sectors.). 
Produce must be transported separately in specialised vehicles and stored in premises prepared for the purpose and approved by the Consejo Regulador. 
Link Historical 
Potato-growing in Galicia is mentioned as far back as 1607 but its real importance and social role date from the mid-18th century with the first legal disputes between peasants and tithe-collectors (1736). Its biggest expansion followed the 1768-69 cereals crisis, since when it has played a key role in the region's demographics. 
Since the late 18th century, potato-growing (whether on irrigated or non-irrigated land) has been one of the most distinctive features of Galicia's agricultural landscape, as well as forming the nutritional basis both for the human population and for stockrearing (especially cattle and pigs) in the region. 
The arrival of the potato and the generalisation of its growing contributed enormously to the development of subsistence mixed cropping; to this day almost all crop rotation in Galicia includes potatoes. 
Natural 
Relief: In general in Galicia higher altitudes are suitable for forestry and extensive livestock farming, intermediate areas for extensive tillage and free-range stockrearing and valleys and low-lying areas are excellent for fruit and vegetable growing. 
Climate: Thanks to local climatic conditions, soil characteristics and painstaking growing practices, produce is of exceptional culinary quality. This fact, well known to traders and consumers, has made the quality Galician potato a much appreciated product commanding higher prices on both regional and national markets. 
The relevant climatic conditions are plentiful rainfall (1000-1500 mm annually in the subzones in question) and mild temperatures, which allow for optimum growth of the potato plant without recourse to irrigation, facilitating continuous tuber development. A dry season in August and September, during which soil moisture drops, means that potatoes lose water just before harvesting and ripen perfectly, forming a robust and uniform skin, both of which factors (skin and water loss) enhance their conservability and culinary quality. 
Soils: Recommended are loose-textured, non-stony soils, whose organic matter content is not too high. Predominant in the production areas are loamy and loamy-sandy soils with pH values of 5 to 6,5 — perfect for this crop. This texture allows tubers to form thin, uniform skins and to harvest clean (no need for washing). The slightly acidic pH militates against scab (a disease that turns the potato's skin rough and scabby, making it unsellable due to its unpleasant appearance). 
Abundant manuring of the soil (about 25 to 30 tonnes per hectare) greatly benefits the crop's culinary quality. 
Name: | Consejo Regulador de la Denominación Específica "Pataca de Galicia" | 
Address: | Finca Devesa, s/n. N-525, p.k. 200. 32630. Xinzo de Limia. Ourense | 
Tel.: | 988-46 26 50 | 
Fax: | 988-46 26 50 | 
Inspection body : 
The Consejo Regulador meets the requirements of standard EN-45011, so conforming to Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92. 
Labelling : 
One third of the front of the packaging must be occupied by the designation logo and the words Protected Geographical Indication "Pataca de Galicia". The packaging must also bear a numbered label issued by the Consejo Regulador, on which the logo is repeated. 
National requirements - Law No 25/1970 of 2 December 1970 on rules governing viticulture, wine and spirits. 
- Decree No 835/1972 of 28 March 1972 on detailed rules for the implementation of Law No 25/1970. 
- Order of 25 January 1994 specifying the correlation between Spanish law and Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 as regards designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs. 
- Royal Decree 1643/1999 of 22 October 1999 laying down rules on the processing of applications for entry in the Community Register of Protected Designations of Origin and Protected Geographical Indications. 
[1] European Commission, Directorate-General for Agriculture, Agricultural product quality policy, B-1049 Brussels. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
