Publication of an application for registration pursuant to Article 6(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin 
Publication of an application for registration pursuant to Article 6(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin 
(2006/C 3/04) 
This publication confers the right to object to the application pursuant to Articles 7 and 12d of the abovementioned Regulation. Any objection to this application must be submitted via the competent authority in a Member State, in a WTO member country or in a third country recognized in accordance with Article 12(3) within a time limit of six months from the date of this publication. The arguments for publication are set out below, in particular under 4.6, and are considered to justify the application within the meaning of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92. 
SUMMARY 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No 2081/92 
"BATATA DE TRÁS-OS-MONTES" 
EC No: PT/00217/ 10.12.2001 
PDO ( ) PGI ( X ) 
This summary has been drawn up for information purposes only. For full details interested parties, in particular the producers of products covered by the PGI in question, are invited to consult the complete version of the specification, obtainable at national level or from the European Commission [1]. 
1. Responsible department in the Member State: 
Name: | INSTITUTO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO RURAL E HIDRÁULICA | 
Address: | Av. Afonso Costa, 3. P-1949-002 Lisboa | 
Tel.: | 351 21 844 22 00 | 
Fax: | 351 21 844 22 02 | 
E-mail: | idrha@idrha.min-agricultura.pt | 
2. Group: 
Name: | COOPERATIVA AGRÍCOLA NORTE TRANSMONTANO, CRL | 
Address: | Av. General Ribeiro de Carvalho P-5400-497 Chaves | 
Tel.: | 351 276 62 23 69 | 
Fax: | 351 276 32 23 69 | 
E-mail: | cant@net.sapo.pt | 
Composition: producer/processor (X) other ( ) 
3. Type of product: 
Category 1.6: Fruit, vegetables and cereals (in natural state or processed) 
4. Specification: 
(Summary of requirements under Article 4(2)): 
Name : "Batata de Trás-os-Montes" 
Description : The Batata de Trás-os-Montes is a tuber of Solanum tuberosum L., a plant of the Solanaceae family, commonly known as the potato plant, grown under the special agri-environmental conditions found in the mountains and valleys of Trás-os-Montes. The cultivars used are: Desiree, Kennebec, Jaerla and Atlantic. Its shape is roughly cylindrical and tends to vary depending on the variety, but is homogeneous within each variety and batch. The skin consists of a layer of suberised cells, light in colour, i.e. from dirty white to a reddish chestnut. When cut, it has a moist, yellowish-white and perfectly even appearance, without eyes. The outside has a suberised layer, almost always slightly darker (light pink or reddish) than the inside. Thanks to the agri-environmental conditions found in Trás-os-Montes, in particular the warmth provided by well manured and hoed soils, the Batata de Trás-os-Montes has a pleasant, very typical and slightly sweet taste, a similarly pleasant earthy smell and, compared with other potatoes, an uncommonly high starch content, which averages 78 % in the dry matter. 
Geographical area : As a result of its requirements in terms of soil and climate, its organoleptic characteristics and the varieties used, the know-how of the people and the local methods which have always been followed conscientiously, the geographical area of production, processing and packing of the Batata de Trás-os-Montes is naturally bounded by the mountains and valleys of Trás-os-Montes, comprising the municipalities of Boticas, Bragança, Chaves, Macedo de Cavaleiros, Montalegre, Valpaços, Vila Pouca de Aguiar and Vinhais, the parishes of Carvas, Fiolhoso, Jou, Palheiros, Valongo de Milhais and Vilares in the municipality of Murça, the parishes of Pópulo, Ribalonga and Vila Verde in the municipality of Alijó, the parishes of Aguieiras, Bouça, Fradizela, S. Pedro Velho, Torre de D. Chama, Vale de Gouvinhas and Vale de Telhas in the municipality of Mirandela, the parishes of Agrobom, Gebelim, Pombal, Saldonha, Sambade, Soeima and Vales in the municipality of Alfândega da Fé, and the parishes of Argozelo, Carção, Matela, Pinelo and Santulhão in the municipality of Vimioso. 
Proof of origin : In addition to the flavour, which is linked to the region, the entire production process is subject to a special system of checks, culminating in the placing of the certification mark on the packaging, thereby allowing the product to be fully traceable; thanks to grower and packing station registers it is possible at any moment to establish the origin and variety of the potatoes and the quantities concerned, the type of packaging used, the numbers on the certification marks, and the destination of the packaging. 
Method of production : The method of production has not changed substantially over time. Potato-growing — practised for a maximum of three consecutive years on the same parcel — may be extensive (in which case the potatoes are grown in rotation with cereals or other annual crops) or intensive (i.e. market gardening in rotation with vegetables or maize). A key operation is the manuring of the soil in the winter. This involves the use of natural organic material, a practice which is typical of the region and, together with the making of furrows and the spacing used (60 × 40 cm), contributes decisively to the organoleptic and chemical characteristics of the product. The concentration, market preparation and packing of the product must take place in the region of origin in order to allow control and complete traceability and provide the consumer with a genuine product whose origin can be guaranteed. 
Link : Together with the cultivation methods used, ripening, picking and storage conditions, the climate of the region gives the tuber a sweet taste, which stems from its exceptional sugar/starch content, and an ideal texture for absorbing the sauce of fatty meats (pork), the latter being a mainstay of cooking in the region. These characteristics have given the product a unique fame and reputation and enabled it to survive over the generations, thus contributing to the sustainability of family farms in the region. Expert writings dating back to the end of the 18th century provide proof of the economic and social and cultural importance of the product, its reputation and long history. 
Name: | TRADIÇÃO E QUALIDADE — ASSOCIAÇÃO INTERPROFISSIONAL PARA OSPRODUTOS AGRO-ALIMENTARES DE TRÁS OS MONTES | 
Address: | Av. 25 De Abril 273 S/L P-5370 Mirandela | 
Tel.: | 351 278 26 14 10 | 
Fax: | 351 278 26 14 10 | 
Inspection body : 
Tradição e Qualidade is recognised as fulfilling the requirements of Standard 45011:2001. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Labelling : 
The labelling must include the words "Batata de Trás-os-Montes" PGI, the logo shown below and the European logo with effect from the Community Decision. 
The labelling must also bear a certification label including the name of the product and the forms of wording concerned, the name of the inspection body and a serial number (i.e. a numerical or alphanumeric code used for tracing the product). 
National requirements : — 
[1] European Commission, Directorate-General for Agriculture, Agricultural product quality policy Unit, B-1049 Brussels. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
