Publication of an application for registration pursuant to Article 6(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin 
Publication of an application for registration pursuant to Article 6(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin 
(2006/C 32/04) 
This publication confers the right to object to the application pursuant to Articles 7 and 12d of the abovementioned Regulation. Any objection to this application must be submitted via the competent authority in a Member State, in a WTO member country or in a third country recognized in accordance with Article 12(3) within a time limit of six months from the date of this publication. The arguments for publication are set out below, in particular under 4.6, and are considered to justify the application within the meaning of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 
SUMMARY 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No 2081/92 
CORDEIRO DE BARROSO, ANHO DE BARROSO OR BORREGO DE LEITE DE BARROSO 
EC No: PT/00231/ 6.5.2002 
PDO ( ) PGI ( X ) 
This summary has been drawn up for information purposes only. For full details interested parties, in particular the producers of products covered by the PDO or PGI in question, are invited to consult the complete version of the specification, obtainable at national level or from the European Commission [1]. 
1. Responsible department in the Member State: 
Name: | Instituto de Desenvolvimento Rural e Hidráulica | 
Address: | Av. Afonso Costa, n.o 3, P-1949-002 Lisboa | 
Tel.: | (351) 21 844 22 00 | 
Fax: | (351) 21 844 22 02 | 
E-mail: | idrha@idrha.min-agricultura.pt | 
2. Group: 
Name : Cooperativa Agrícola de Produtores de Batata para Semente de Montalegre crl 
Address Rua General Humberto Delgado 5470 — P-247 Montalegre 
Tel.: (351) 276 512 253 
Fax: (351) 276 512 528 
E-mail: quadrimonte@iol.pt 
Composition : producer/processor (X) other ( ) 
3. Type of product: 
Group 1.1 — Fresh meat (and offal) 
4. Specification: 
(Summary of requirements under Article 4(2)) 
Name : %quot%Cordeiro de Barroso, Anho de Barroso or Cordeiro de leite de Barroso%quot% 
Description : Meat obtained from the cutting of carcases of male or female animals of the ovine species — crosses of Churra Gelga and Bordaleira de Entre Douro e Minho — reared traditionally (i.e. non-intensively) in the area of production, slaughtered at up to four months and with a carcase weight of 4-12 kg. Even simple cooking reveals a meat that is tender, juicy and very tasty, with a typical flavour indissociably linked to the system of production and the type of nutrition of the animals. The carcases fall into three weight groups: A (4.0-7.0 kg), B (7.1-10 kg) or C (10.1-12.0 kg). 
Geographical area : The geographical area of production in which Cordeiro de Barroso lambs are born, reared and slaughtered, the carcases cut and the meat packed comprises the Vila Real district municipalities of Boticas, Chaves, Mondim de Basto, Montalegre, Murça, Ribeira de Pena, Valpaços and Vila Pouca de Aguiar. While the area known as Barroso normally comprises only the municipalities of Boticas, Chaves and Montalegre, in this case the adjoining municipalities above have been added (see above), since they feature the same lamb-farming conditions and produce carcases of the same quality. 
Proof of origin : The geographical indication may not be used unless the carcases come from animals born and reared on farms which satisfy all the following requirements: they must be located in the geographical area of production, they must comply with the animal health and nutrition rules applicable, they must be run in accordance with the specification and must conform to the certification and control system laid down in the Regras de Controlo e Certificação do Cordeiro de Barroso. The certification mark on each package is numbered, allowing the product to be traced at any point in the production chain, i.e. all the way back to the holding. 
Method of production : 
The meat comes from the cutting of carcases of lambs obtained by crossing Churra Galega with Bordaleira de Entre Douro e Minho The lambs are produced and reared in accordance with traditional methods and slaughtered after 30-120 days at an abattoir which has an approval number, operates in accordance with the legislation applicable, is approved by the European Community, is located within the geographical area of production and is specifically authorised by the producers' group concerned. The animals must be rendered senseless before being slaughtered. Slaughter must take place in uninterrupted batches, with each batch consisting solely of lambs belonging to a single approved producer. A technician from the certifying body, or a duly authorised representative, is always present during slaughter to ensure that the abattoir is operating properly and that the specification is complied with. Immediately after the post mortem inspection that follows slaughter, the carcases or cuts are refrigerated until they are brought down to a temperature of 4 °C or less (± 1 °C). The finishing temperature of 7 °C within the carcase is reached in less than 12 hours, and the relative humidity is kept at 85-90 % until despatch, in accordance with the legislation applicable. 
Cutting and packing must take place within the geographical area defined above, failing which traceability and the control of the genuineness and characteristics of the product can no longer, because of the handling of the product, be guaranteed. 
Link : The production of Cordeiro de Barroso meat is closely linked to, and dependent on, the utilisation of fallow land, natural and improved pastures and the spontaneous vegetation of the Barroso region. The existence of a characteristic ecosystem in the region, together with the know-how of the local population, in particular in terms of flock management and control, produces a lamb with characteristics that are specific to the region of production. The latter is characterised by extensive sheepfarming, utilising resources that are highly specific, and this, over the decades, has helped to bring about a traditional type of lamb production. Sheep-rearing has long been practised in the region, being closely linked to the local practice of grazing. Owing to its flavour and texture, Cordeiro de Barroso meat has always been an important local food, especially on feast days. Highly prized within the region, the livestock concerned features prominently in the local traditions of the Barroso, so much so that it is sometimes offered as a gift on special occasions. 
Name: | Tradição e Qualidade — Associação Interprofissional para Produtos Agro-Alimentares de Trás-os-Montes | 
Address: | Av. 25 de Abril, 273 S/L, P-5370 Mirandela | 
Tel.: | (351) 278 261 410 | 
Fax: | (351) 278 261 410 | 
E-mail | tradição-qualidade@clix.pt | 
Inspection body : 
Tradição e Qualidade is recognised as complying with Standard 45011:2001. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Labelling : 
The words %quot%Cordeiro de Barroso (PGI)%quot%, the product logo and the Community logo must appear on the label after Community registration.CORDEIRO DE BARROSOIndicação Geográfica 
The labelling also includes a certification mark, which must feature the name of the product and the indication concerned, the name of the inspection body and the serial number (numerical or alphanumeric code which allows the product to be traced). 
National requirements : — 
[1] European Commission, Directorate-General for Agriculture, Agricultural product quality policy Unit, B-1049 Brussels. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
