Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue (2008) {SEC(2005) 1202} /* COM/2005/0467 final - COD 2005/0203 */ 
[pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | 
Brussels, 5.10.2005 
COM(2005) 467 final 
2005/0203 (COD) 
Proposal for a 
DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
concerning the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue (2008) 
(presented by the Commission) {SEC(2005) 1202} 
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 
1) CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL 
- Reasons for the proposal 
Intercultural dialogue is intimately linked to the fundamental ambition underlying the construction of Europe, namely to bring together the peoples of Europe. This vocation on the part of the Union requires dialogue to be voluntarily declared a priority, in order to call upon European citizens, and all those living in the European Union, to play a full part in managing our diversity, which is enriched by increasing variation and by the changes and additions brought about by globalisation. 
Moreover, intercultural dialogue is an instrument which could facilitate the implementation of a series of strategic priorities for the Union. 
A European Year devoted to intercultural dialogue constitutes a unique awareness-raising tool for affirming this priority and involving citizens. 
- Background 
The Treaty establishing the European Community gives it the task of creating an ever-closer union between the peoples of Europe and of contributing to the flowering of the cultures of Member States, while respecting their national and regional diversity and also highlighting their common cultural heritage. The key to the success of this task is intercultural dialogue. 
In addition, the combined effect of the successive enlargements of the Union, the increased mobility resulting from the single market, old and new migratory flows, more significant exchanges with the rest of the world through trade, education, leisure and globalisation in general, is increasing interactions between European citizens, and all those living in the European Union, and the various cultures, languages, ethnic groups and religions in Europe and beyond. 
European citizens, and all those living in the Union temporarily or permanently, should therefore be able to acquire the knowledge, qualifications and aptitudes enabling them to deal with a more open, but also more complex, environment and to manage its difficulties and tensions in order to benefit from the opportunities offered to them by such a society, not only in Europe but also in the world. 
At the heart of the European project, priority is given to a strengthened and more structured intercultural dialogue, in order to involve all European citizens and all those living in the European Union, and particularly young people, consistent with the new dialogue-based approach desired by the Commission. Intercultural dialogue appears to be the tool of choice for citizens to manage the complex reality in our societies and galvanise them. In this context it is important to inspire people living in the Union to actively get in touch with other cultures, be it at home or abroad, and thus to contribute to tolerance and mutual respect which are prerequisites for intercultural dialogue. 
Intercultural dialogue thus contributes towards achieving a number of the Union’s strategic priorities, in particular: 
- by respecting and promoting cultural diversity in Europe and promoting active European citizenship open to the world and based on common values in the European Union; 
- by including the renewed Lisbon strategy, for which the knowledge-based economy requires people capable of adapting to changes and benefiting from all possible sources of innovation in order to increase prosperity; 
- by promoting the Union’s commitment to solidarity, social justice and greater cohesion in the respect of common values in the European Union; 
- by enabling Europe to make its voice heard in the world and to forge effective partnerships with neighbouring countries, thus extending the zone of stability and democracy beyond the Union and thereby influencing the wellbeing and security of European citizens and all those living in the European Union. 
In this spirit, the Commission proposes that 2008 be declared the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 
- Provisions in force in the field covered by the proposal 
There are no provisions in force in the field covered by the proposal concerning intercultural dialogue as such, but many projects financed under various Community programmes contribute directly or indirectly to the development of such a dialogue. 
- Coherence with other policies and objectives of the Union 
The European Year of Intercultural Dialogue proposed for 2008 will articulate and give concrete form to a number of fundamental principles of the European Union: 
- The Treaty establishing the European Community gives it the task of creating an ever-closer union between the peoples of Europe and of contributing to the flowering of the cultures of Member States, while respecting their national and regional diversity and also highlighting their common cultural heritage. It also lays down that "the Community shall take cultural aspects into account in its action under other provisions of the Treaty, in particular in order to respect and to promote the diversity of its cultures". 
- The Preamble to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states that "the Union is founded on the indivisible, universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity; it is based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law. It places the individual at the heart of its activities, by establishing the citizenship of the Union [...]. The Union contributes to the preservation and to the development of these common values while respecting the diversity of the cultures and traditions of the peoples of Europe as well as the national identities of the Member States". 
The European Year of Intercultural Dialogue will contribute to the achievement of a number of the Union’s strategic priorities, particularly with regard to the renewed Lisbon strategy for growth and employment and the Union’s commitment to solidarity, social justice and greater cohesion. It will also enable Europe to make its voice better heard in the world, thus extending the zone of stability and democracy beyond the Union. 
Finally, intercultural dialogue forms part of the new approach to dialogue and communication desired by the Commission, by contributing to the dialogue with European citizens and all those living in the European Union. A significant number of Community actions involve the general theme of intercultural dialogue, but with different objectives and aims. Significant intercultural dialogue initiatives have been launched or planned, for example in the fields of culture, lifelong learning, youth, citizenship, combating discrimination and social exclusion, combating racism and xenophobia, policy on asylum and the integration of immigrants, audiovisual policy and research. 
In its external relations, the Community carries out numerous Community activities which also contribute significantly to the promotion of intercultural dialogue. An important example is the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership with countries which are also important countries of origin of immigrants into the EU. This partnership comprises inter alia a programme for youth exchanges, and two intercultural dialogue programmes on cultural heritage and audio-visual media. The flagship action has been the creation in 2005 of the Anna Lindh Foundation for the Dialogue between cultures in Alexandria, Egypt. The European Year will provide an opportunity to strengthen this “mainstreaming” in all relevant Community programmes and actions in 2008 in order to raise the profile and increase the overall impact of these actions in the context of the Year. This will make it possible to promote a consistent image of the multiplicity of Community actions contributing to the intercultural dialogue while developing synergies between programmes. It will also make it possible to diversify actions by listening to European citizens, and all those living in the European Union, in their different environments and involving them in the search for appropriate forms of dialogue. 
Actions during the Year may thus be supported by a critical mass of specific intercultural dialogue projects in a number of sectors. All these projects (and the programmes supporting them) will benefit from the raised profile accorded by the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 
Preparation for the Year will need to be closely coordinated with the preparation for and implementation of the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All in 2007[1] in order to maximise synergies and complementarity between these two initiatives. 
The European Year is primarily aimed at the Member States of the European Union. The candidate countries will be closely associated with the Year through other initiatives for promoting intercultural dialogue, which will be developed within relevant cooperation and dialogue frameworks, in particular the civil society dialogue between the European Union and the candidate countries. 
The intercultural dialogue within the EU being inextricably linked to our endeavours of promoting dialogue among cultures and civilizations internationally, it will also be important to ensure complementarity between the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue and all external aspects of promoting intercultural dialogue initiatives developed within appropriate frameworks, including with those EFTA countries which are party to the EEA agreement, the countries of the western Balkans and the partner countries of the European neighbourhood policy. 
Any cooperation initiative with third countries, particularly developing countries, which is relevant with regard to the intercultural dialogue objectives of the Year will require close appropriate coordination. 
2) CONSULTATION OF INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ANALYSES 
- Consultation of interested parties 
Intercultural dialogue is a horizontal issue concerning all sectors of society. There is no specialist sector or player specific to it. There is no all-inclusive formula or favoured setting for intercultural dialogue. All European citizens, and all those living in the European Union, are concerned and should be invited to take part in this dialogue. Given the existence of a recent diversified series of relevant consultations, particularly in the context of preparing the new generation of programmes for education, culture, youth and citizenship, another specific consultation exercise was not considered necessary for the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 
- Obtaining and using expertise 
The use of external experts was not necessary. 
- Impact analysis 
No further action : the absence of any action other than that already implemented in specific and sectoral actions would distract attention from a political priority of the Union, and would above all give rise to opportunity costs: 
Not enabling “mainstreaming” actions implemented on a significant scale in a number of areas to achieve critical mass and an overall profile; limiting the scope of intercultural dialogue to sectors where appropriate programmes exist and not enabling other areas or trans-sectoral approaches to intercultural dialogue to be explored; not enabling actions so far undertaken to reach audiences beyond the specific environments (e.g.: educational communities, university specialists, cultural players, etc.) to which they are often confined; not enabling broader cooperation, coordination and synergy between them; making the involvement of the general public and of European society as a whole more difficult. 
Regulatory action : Article 151 of the Treaty excludes "any harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States". Thus any regulatory instrument should be ruled out. 
Horizontal or “mainstreaming” approach : this approach has already been implemented to a significant extent in many areas and should continue. However, this option in itself does not make it possible to achieve critical mass and a sufficient profile. The scope of intercultural dialogue would be limited to those sectors for which there are appropriate programmes and would not permit exploration of other areas or trans-sectoral approaches. 
Multiannual programme and/or action plan : experience so far has shown that such an option would be premature. As a first stage, it is essential to test the situation in the field. The appropriate nature of a multiannual programme or action plan could derive from the experience of the European Year but should not be presumed at this stage. 
The option proposed is a European Year centred on three action lines concentrating on showcasing and communication. These action lines are, in turn, based on the richness and diversity of a critical mass of specific projects to be implemented in 2008 through Community programmes and other relevant actions. 
The Commission has carried out an impact analysis under its legislative and work programme, and the report is available at: 
http://europa.eu.int/comm/dgs/education_culture/evalreports/index_en.htm. 
3) LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL 
- Summary of the objectives of the action and the proposed measures 
The overall objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue are as follows: 
- to promote intercultural dialogue as an instrument to assist European citizens, and all those living permanently or temporarily in the European Union, in acquiring the knowledge, qualifications and aptitudes to enable them to deal with a more open but also more complex environment and to overcome any difficulties in order to benefit from the opportunities provided by a diverse and dynamic society, not only in Europe but also in the world; 
- to raise the awareness of European citizens, and all those living in the European Union, of the importance of developing active European citizenship[2] which is open to the world, respectful of cultural diversity and based on common values in the European Union of respect for human dignity, liberty, equality, non-discrimination, solidarity, the principles of democracy and the rule of law as well as respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. 
The specific objectives of the action will be to contribute to: 
- raising the profile and increasing the coherence of all Community programmes and actions contributing to intercultural dialogue. 
Intercultural dialogue is generally a factor in Community policies and instruments. Community initiatives in this field have led to a number of specific projects dealing with intercultural dialogue from a number of points of view and with different sectors of society. These initiatives have also made it possible to involve civil society in the search for forms of dialogue adapted to the experience of citizens. However, the overall impact and profile of Community action in this field need to be strengthened. 
In general, intercultural dialogue may be tackled in each relevant Community programme or action where this is compatible with its conception and management. 
The Year will also need to facilitate the identification of relevant Community actions for project promoters which touch on intercultural dialogue and the development of synergies between these actions. The Year will help to increase the value of Community action in this field and should also increase its coherence and effectiveness. 
- Highlighting the contribution of different cultures to our heritage and ways of life; raising the awareness of European citizens and all persons living in the European Union, particularly young people, of the importance of seeking the means to use intercultural dialogue to realise an active European citizenship open to the world, respectful of cultural diversity and based on common values in the European Union. 
- Contributing to innovation and to the horizontal and trans-sectoral dimension of approaches aimed at promoting intercultural dialogue, particularly among young people. 
In particular, the Year will need to underline the promotion and development of initiatives bringing together different communities and sectors of society and looking at intercultural dialogue from a multiple perspective. In promoting this trans-sectoral cooperation, the Year will contribute indirectly to the exchange of good practice and experiences between the sectors with regard to promoting intercultural dialogue. 
The Year will be developed around three types of action, which constitute the operational objectives: 
- actions on a Community scale: an information campaign promoting the objectives of the European Year (including its position at national level), surveys and studies on a Community scale, with the aim of assessing and reporting on the preparation for, effectiveness and impact of and long-term follow-up to the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue; 
- grants for actions on a Community scale: a limited number of emblematic actions on a European scale aimed at raising awareness, particularly among young people, of the objectives of the European Year may receive Community aid of up to 80% of the total cost; 
- co-financing of actions on a national scale with a strong European dimension: actions at national level may meet the requirements for receiving Community aid of up to 50% of the total cost. 
The Community may provide non-financial support, including written authorisation to use the logo and other material associated with the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, to initiatives from public or private organisations, in so far as they can assure the Commission that the initiatives in question are or will be carried out during 2008 and are likely to make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. Initiatives organised in third countries in association or cooperation with the Year, but not supported financially by it, may also benefit from non-financial support from the Community and use the logo and other material associated with the Year. 
- Legal basis 
Article 151 of the EC Treaty. 
- Principle of subsidiarity 
The principle of subsidiarity applies in so far as the proposal does not affect an area where the Community has exclusive competence. 
The objectives of the proposal may not be achieved to a sufficient extent solely by the action of Member States for the following reasons: 
- promoting intercultural dialogue requires action on a variety of fronts and at a number of levels, in fields where national and local authorities have very broad competence (particularly in cultural and education policies). The Community has a supplementary role in so far as its action, while concentrated on the individual citizen, would have more effect at Community level than that of the Member States. Action at national level alone would risk limiting the scope of intercultural dialogue and taking insufficient account of the European citizenship dimension associated with the dialogue. 
The objectives of the proposal may be better achieved through Community action for the following reasons: 
- in the context of the implementation of the relevant Community programmes, intercultural dialogue will be tackled whenever possible. This strengthening of the “mainstreaming” of intercultural dialogue in Community programmes will make it possible not only to have a critical mass of European-scale intercultural dialogue projects and initiatives but will also provide a series of networks for involving the general public; 
- European Years are typically designed to involve a wide variety of audiences in order to raise awareness of a specific theme. The scale of participation in a limited time frame may help to enhance the Union’s political priorities; 
- apart from the effects of this strengthening of the mainstreaming of intercultural dialogue within Community programmes, the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue will concentrate on actions with a clear Community added value, leaving it to Member States to mobilise players at regional and local level in accordance with individual situations. 
- Principle of proportionality 
As the Year is based on a critical mass of projects supported by Community programmes, it may carry out a significant Community development action with a budget estimated at 10 million €. The dynamic created by the Year will have to mobilise additional finance. Non-financial support actions may be used to increase the number of actions using the Year’s communication tools and thus raise its profile. 
The Year in no way limits action at national level and restricts itself to giving it a Community impulse. In addition, the intervention methods adopted are simple and impose no disproportionate management constraints for administrations tasked with implementing the Year. 
The actions envisaged here and their financing do not go beyond what is necessary for achieving the objectives, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. 
- Choice of instruments 
The issue of intercultural dialogue is not subject to normative actions. A Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council is the most appropriate instrument for establishing an appropriate framework for development. 
4) BUDGETARY IMPACT 
The budget scheduled for the Year is 10 million €. 
2005/0203 (COD) 
Proposal for a 
DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL 
concerning the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue (2008) 
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first indent of Article 151(5) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[3], 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[4], 
Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[5], 
Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty[6], 
Whereas: 
(1) The Treaty establishing the European Community gives it the task of creating an ever-closer union between the peoples of Europe and of contributing to the flowering of the cultures of Member States, while respecting their national and regional diversity and also highlighting their common cultural heritage. 
(2) The combined effect of the successive enlargements of the Union, the increased mobility resulting from the single market, old and new migratory flows, more significant exchanges with the rest of the world through trade, education, leisure and globalisation in general, is increasing interactions between European citizens, and all those living in the European Union, and the various cultures, languages, ethnic groups and religions in Europe and beyond. 
(3) European citizens, and all those living in the Union temporarily or permanently, should therefore be able to acquire the knowledge, qualifications and aptitudes enabling them to deal with a more open, but also more complex, environment and to manage its difficulties and tensions in order to benefit from the opportunities offered to them by such a society, not only in Europe but also in the world. 
(4) At the heart of the European project, intercultural dialogue appears to be the tool of choice for citizens to manage the complex reality in our societies and galvanise them. 
(5) Intercultural dialogue thus contributes towards achieving a number of the Union’s strategic priorities, in particular: 
- by respecting and promoting cultural diversity in Europe and promoting active European citizenship open to the world and based on the common values in the European Union; 
- by including the renewed Lisbon strategy, for which the knowledge-based economy requires people capable of adapting to changes and benefiting from all possible sources of innovation in order to increase prosperity; 
- by supporting the Union’s commitment to solidarity, social justice and greater cohesion in the respect of common values in the European Union; 
- by enabling Europe to make its voice better heard in the world and to forge effective partnerships with neighbouring countries, thus extending the zone of stability and democracy beyond the Union and thereby influencing the wellbeing and security of European citizens and all those living in the European Union. 
(6) Intercultural dialogue is an important dimension in many Community policies and instruments in the fields of education, youth, culture, citizenship and sport, combating discrimination and social exclusion, lifelong learning, combating racism and xenophobia, policy on asylum and the integration of immigrants, audiovisual policy and research. At the same time it is an increasing factor in the European Union’s external relations, particularly with regard to the candidate countries, the countries of the western Balkans and the partner countries of the European neighbourhood policy[7]. 
(7) Building on this diversified basis of Community experiences and initiatives, involving each citizen and European society as a whole in an intercultural dialogue approach is a fundamental step. 
(8) For the purpose of the present decision, the notion of “active European citizenship” does not cover only citizens of the European Union as defined in Article 17 of the EC Treaty, but any individual living permanently or temporarily in the European Union. 
(9) The common values of the European Union are those defined in Article 6(1) of the Treaty on European Union. 
(10) It is important to ensure complementarity with all Community, national, regional and local actions with a strong intercultural dialogue dimension. The European Year of Intercultural Dialogue should make it possible to raise their profile and increase their coherence while contributing to innovation and to the horizontal and trans-sectoral dimension of approaches aimed at promoting intercultural dialogue. 
(11) It will also be important to ensure complementarity between the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue and all external aspects of promoting intercultural dialogue initiatives developed within appropriate frameworks, including with those EFTA countries which are party to the EEA agreement, the countries of the western Balkans and the partner countries of the European neighbourhood policy. It will be also important to ensure complementarity with any other initiative of cooperation with third countries, in particular developing countries, relevant for the objectives of intercultural dialogue of the European Year of Intercultural dialogue. 
(12) This Decision is addressed to the Member States. The candidate countries should be closely associated with actions under the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue through initiatives to promote intercultural dialogue to be developed within the relevant frameworks for cooperation and dialogue, particularly in the context of the civil society dialogue between the European Union and the candidate countries[8]. 
(13) This Decision establishes, throughout the duration of the action, a financial framework which will constitute the budgetary authority's prime reference within the meaning of point 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure[9]. 
(14) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission. An advisory committee is thus considered appropriate to the type and scale of the action envisaged. 
(15) As the objectives of the action envisaged cannot be achieved to a sufficient degree by the Member States owing to the need, in particular, for multilateral partnerships and transnational exchanges on a Community scale and may therefore, owing to the dimension of the action, be better carried out at Community level, the Community may take measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality as laid down in that Article, this Decision does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve these objectives. 
HAVE ADOPTED THIS DECISION: 
Article 1 Subject 
The year 2008 shall be designated as the “European Year of Intercultural Dialogue”. 
Article 2 Objectives 
1. The overall objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue shall be to contribute to: 
- promoting intercultural dialogue as an instrument to assist European citizens and all those living in the Union temporarily or permanently in acquiring the knowledge, qualifications and aptitudes enabling them to deal with a more open, but also more complex, environment and to manage any difficulties in order to benefit from the opportunities offered to them by a diverse and dynamic society, not only in Europe but also in the world; 
- raising the awareness of European citizens and all those living in the European Union of the importance of developing active European citizenship which is open to the world, respects cultural diversity and is based on the common values in the European Union of respect for human dignity, liberty, equality, non-discrimination, solidarity, the principles of democracy and the rule of law as well as respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. 
2. The specific objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue shall be to: 
- raise the profile and increase the coherence of all Community programmes and actions contributing to intercultural dialogue; 
- highlight the contribution of different cultures to our heritage and ways of life; raise the awareness of European citizens and all those living in the European Union, particularly young people, of the importance of seeking the means to affirm through intercultural dialogue an active European citizenship which is open to the world, respects cultural diversity and is based on the common values in the European Union; 
- contribute to innovation and to the horizontal and trans-sectoral dimension of approaches aimed at promoting intercultural dialogue, particularly among young people. 
Article 3 Content of measures 
The measures taken in order to achieve the objectives defined in Article 2 are set out in the Annex. 
They shall include the implementation of the following activities or the granting of support thereto: 
1. information and promotion campaigns, particularly in cooperation with the media, at Community and national level to disseminate the key messages concerning the objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue; 
2. events and initiatives on a European scale aimed at promoting intercultural dialogue, and highlighting achievements and experiences on the theme of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue; 
3. events and initiatives at national level with a strong European dimension aimed at promoting the objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue; 
4. surveys and studies on a Community or national scale to assess and report on the preparation for, effectiveness and impact of and long-term follow-up to the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 
Article 4 Implementation 
The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 6(2). 
Article 5 Cooperation by the Member States 
Each Member State shall appoint a national coordination body, or an equivalent administrative body, responsible for organising that State’s participation in the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. Each Member State shall ensure that this body involves in an appropriate manner the various parties in intercultural dialogue at national level. This body shall ensure the coordination, at national level, of actions relating to the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 
Article 6 Committee 
1. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. 
2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 
3. The committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 
Article 7 Financial provisions 
1. Measures which are Community-wide in nature, referred to in part A of the Annex, shall give rise to a procurement contract or the award of grants financed from the general budget of the European Communities. 
2. Measures which are Community-wide in nature, referred to in part B of the Annex, may be subsidised up to 80% of their total cost from the general budget of the European Communities. 
3. The measures referred to in part C of the Annex may be subsidised up to 50% of their total cost from the general budget of the European Communities in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 8. 
Article 8 Application and selection procedure 
1. Decisions on the awarding of grants shall be taken by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 6(2). The Commission shall ensure a balanced distribution between the Member States and among the different fields of activity involved. 
2. Grant applications presented under Article 7(3) shall be submitted to the Commission by the body referred to in Article 5. 
Article 9 International organisations 
For the purposes of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, the Commission may cooperate with appropriate international organisations. 
Article 10 Role of the Commission 
1. The Commission shall ensure coherence between the measures laid down in this Decision and other Community actions and initiatives. 
2. The Commission shall take care to involve the candidate countries in the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, on the basis of their participation in a number of Community programmes including an intercultural dialogue dimension and by developing specific initiatives in appropriate frameworks, particularly in the context of civil society dialogue between the European Union and the candidate countries. 
3. The Commission shall ensure complementarity between the measures taken to achieve the objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue and initiatives likely to be developed within the relevant cooperation and dialogue frameworks with those EFTA countries which are party to the EEA agreement, the countries of the western Balkans and the partner countries of the European neighbourhood policy. 
4. The Commission shall also ensure complementarity with any other initiative of cooperation with third countries, in particular developing countries, relevant for the objectives of intercultural dialogue of the European Year. 
Article 11 Budget 
1. The financial framework for the implementation of this Decision for the period between 1 January 2007 and 31 December 2008 shall be 10 million euro. 
2. Annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limits of the financial perspective. 
Article 12 Protection of Community financial interests 
1. The Commission shall ensure that, when actions financed under the present Regulation are implemented, the financial interests of the Community are protected by the application of preventive measures against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities, by effective checks and by the recovery of the amounts unduly paid and, if irregularities are detected, by effective, proportional and dissuasive penalties, in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96, and with Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 
2. With regard to the Community actions financed under this Decision, the notion of irregularity referred to in Article 1(2) of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 shall mean any infringement of a provision of Community law or any infringement of a contractual obligation resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the Communities or budgets managed by them, by an unjustified item of expenditure. 
3. The Commission shall reduce, suspend or recover the amount of financial assistance granted for an action if it finds irregularities, particularly non-compliance with the provisions of this Decision, the individual decision or the contract granting the financial support in question, or if it transpires that, without Commission approval having being sought, the action has been subjected to significant change which conflicts with its nature or with its implementing conditions. 
4. If the time limits have not been observed or if only part of the allocated financial assistance is justified by the progress made with implementing an action, the Commission shall request the beneficiary to submit observations within a specified period. If the beneficiary does not give a satisfactory answer, the Commission may cancel the remaining financial assistance and demand repayment of sums already paid. 
5. Any amount unduly paid shall be repaid to the Commission. Interest shall be added to any sums not repaid in due time under the conditions laid down in the Financial Regulation. 
Article 13 Surveillance 
1. The beneficiary shall submit technical and financial reports on the progress of work for any action financed under this Decision. A final report shall also be submitted within three months of the completion of the action. The Commission shall determine the form and content of the reports. 
2. For a period of five years following the last payment in respect of any action, the beneficiary of financial assistance shall keep available for the Commission all the supporting documents regarding expenditure on the action. 
3. The Commission shall take every other step necessary to verify that the actions financed are carried out properly and in compliance with the provisions of this Decision and the Financial Regulation (Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002). 
Article 14 Monitoring and evaluation 
The Commission shall submit to Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, not later than 31 December 2009, a report on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the measures laid down in Article 3 of this Decision . 
Article 15 Entry into force 
This Decision shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union . 
Article 16 
This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 
For the European Parliament For the Council 
The President The President 
ANNEX 
MEASURES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3 
A) ACTIONS ON A COMMUNITY SCALE 
1) Information and promotion campaigns including: 
5. the design of a logo and slogans for the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, which will be associated with all activities linked to it; 
6. an information campaign at Community level and positioning at national level; 
7. cooperation with the private sector, broadcasters and other media as partners for disseminating information on the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue; 
8. the production of tools and media available throughout the Community to stimulate public interest; 
9. appropriate measures for publicising the results and raising the profile of Community programmes, actions and initiatives contributing to the objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue; 
10. appropriate initiatives by educational institutions and the general public to disseminate information on the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue; 
11. the establishment of an information website on Europa, including a portal for promoters of projects relating to intercultural dialogue, in order to guide them through the various relevant Community programmes and actions. 
2) Other actions: 
Surveys and studies at Community level with a view to assessing and reporting on the preparation, effectiveness, impact and long-term monitoring of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 
3) Financing will generally take the form of direct purchase of goods and services by means of open and/or restricted invitations to tender. It may also take the form of grants. 
B) COFINANCING OF ACTIONS ON A COMMUNITY SCALE 
A limited number of emblematic actions on a European scale aimed at raising awareness, particularly among young people, of the objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue may receive a Community grant of up to 80% of the total cost. 
These actions may consist of particular events, including a Community event to open and close the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue in cooperation with the Presidencies in office during 2008. 
C) COFINANCING OF ACTIONS ON A NATIONAL SCALE 
Actions at national level with a strong European dimension may fulfil the conditions for receiving Community aid of up to 50% of the total cost. 
These actions may relate in particular to the cofinancing of a national initiative per Member State. 
D) ACTIONS NOT RECEIVING ANY COMMUNITY FINANCIAL AID 
The Community will grant non-financial support, including written authorisation to use the logo, once developed, and other materials associated with the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, in initiatives from public or private organisations, in so far as the latter may provide assurances to the Commission that the initiatives in question are or will be carried out during 2008 and are likely to make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. Initiatives organised in third countries in association or cooperation with the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, without being supported financially by it, may also receive non-financial support from the Community and use the logo and other materials associated with the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 
LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
1. NAME OF THE PROPOSAL: European Year of Intercultural Dialogue 
2. ABM/ABB FRAMEWORK 
Policy area(s) concerned and associated activity/activities: 
Policy area: Education and Culture 
Activity: Culture and languages 
3. BUDGET LINES 
3.1. Budget lines (operational lines and related technical and administrative assistance lines (ex-BA lines)) including headings: 
15.04.02.04 European Year of Intercultural Dialogue 
3.2. Duration of the action and of the financial impact: 
01.01.2007 – 31.12.2008 
3.3. Budgetary characteristics ( add rows if necessary) : 
Budget line | Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contributions from applicant countries | Heading in financial perspective | 
15.04.02.04 | NCE | NDA | YES | NO | NO | 3 | 
4. SUMMARY OF RESOURCES 
4.1. Financial resources 
4.1.1. Summary of commitment appropriations (CA) and payment appropriations (PA) at current prices 
EUR million (to 3 decimal places) 
Expenditure type | Section No | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | n+4 and later | Total | 
Operational expenditure[10] | 
Commitment appropriations (CA) | 8.1 | a | 3.000 | 7.000 | 10.000 | 
Payment appropriations (PA) | b | 1.200 | 4.600 | 4.200 | 10.000 | 
TOTAL REFERENCE AMOUNT | 
Commitment appropriations | a+c | 3.000 | 7.000 | 10.000 | 
Payment appropriations | b+c | 1.200 | 4.600 | 4.200 | 10.000 | 
Administrative expenditure not included in reference amount [11] | 
Human resources and associated expenditure (NDA) | 8.3.4 | d | 0.378 | 0.432 | 0.108 | 0.918 | 
Administrative costs, other than human resources and associated costs, not included in reference amount (NDA) | 8.3.5 | e | 0.026 | 0.064 | 0.016 | 0.106 | 
Total indicative financial cost of action 
TOTAL CA including cost of human resources | a+c+d+e | 3.404 | 7.496 | 0.124 | 11.024 | 
TOTAL PA including cost of human resources | b+c+d+e | 1.604 | 5.096 | 4.324 | 11.024 | 
EUR million (to 3 decimal places) 
4.1.2. Compatibility with financial programming 
x Proposal is compatible with the Commission communication of 14 July 2004 on the financial perspective 2007-2013, COM(2004) 487 final. 
( Proposal will entail reprogramming of the relevant heading in the financial perspective. 
( Proposal may require application of the provisions of the Interinstitutional Agreement[12] (flexibility instrument or revision of the financial perspective). 
4.1.3. Financial impact on revenue 
x Proposal has no financial implications on revenue 
( Proposal has financial impact – the effect on revenue is as follows: 
4.2. Human resources FTE (including officials, temporary and external staff) – see details under point 8.2.1. 
Annual requirements | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | n + 4 and later | 
Total number of human resources | 4 | 5 | 2 | 
5. CHARACTERISTICS AND OBJECTIVES 
5.1. Need to be met in the short or long term 
See point 1 of the explanatory memorandum attached to the proposal for a Decision. 
5.2. Value-added of Community involvement and coherence of the proposal with other financial instruments and possible synergy 
The objectives of the Year, while aimed at each citizen, will be better achieved and have more effect at Community level than at Member State level. The actions envisaged will not go beyond what is necessary to achieve these objectives, respecting the principle of subsidiarity. 
The Commission will ensure that activities financed by the Year will complement other Community interventions in areas such as the Structural Funds, education, culture, youth, citizenship, employment, social affairs, equal opportunities, immigration, promotion of fundamental rights, combating racism and xenophobia, audiovisual policy and research. Complementarity with the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All will be particularly important in order to ensure that the two Years support each other in their objectives and actions. 
5.3. Objectives, expected results and related indicators of the proposal in the context of the ABM framework 
See Articles 2 and 3 of the proposal for a Decision and the relevant annex. 
5.4. Method of implementation (indicative) 
Indicate below the method(s)[13] of implementation chosen. 
x Centralised management 
x directly by the Commission 
ٱ indirectly by delegation to: 
ٱ executive agencies 
ٱ bodies set up by the Communities, as referred to in Article 185 of the Financial Regulation 
ٱ national public-sector bodies/bodies with a public-service mission. 
ٱ Shared or decentralised management 
ٱ with Member States 
ٱ with third countries 
ٱ Joint management with international organisations (please specify) 
6. MONITORING AND EVALUATION 
6.1. Monitoring system 
It is worthwhile for the Commission and the Member States to ensure consistency between the measures financed. This monitoring work should promote the quality of the actions supported and their consistency with the objectives of the Year. The design of the monitoring framework will primarily be the responsibility of the Commission, in consultation with participating States. Monitoring systems will be applied in accordance with responsibilities for the financing of activities. The table below provides some examples of indicators. 
Objectives | Indicators (indicative) | 
General | 
Promote intercultural dialogue as an instrument to help European citizens and all people living in the EU, temporarily or permanently, to acquire knowledge, skills and abilities that will allow them to master a more open, but also more complex environment and to manage its potential difficulties in order to take advantage of the opportunities such a diverse and dynamic society offers, not only in Europe, but also in the world | Number and type of initiatives funded or sponsored by the Year Change in perceptions of people who have taken part in the activities of the Year | 
Raising awareness of European citizens and all people living in the EU of the importance of developing an active European citizenship, with an open attitude to the world, respecting cultural diversity and based on common values in the European Union of respect for human dignity, freedom, equality, non-discrimination, solidarity and principles of democracy and rule of law as well as respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. | Number of citizens taking part in the events related to the Year Change in perceptions of participants in the activities of the Year | 
Specific | Indicators | 
Increase the visibility and consistency of all Community programmes and actions contributing to the promotion of intercultural dialogue | Access to and use of information tools established and disseminated by the Year about relevant Community programmes; Awareness among participants in the activities of the Year of these programmes and actions. | 
Underline the contribution of different cultures to our heritage and lifestyles; raising awareness of European citizens and all people living in the EU, in particular young people, of the importance of exploring together the means to be implemented to develop, through intercultural dialogue, an active European citizenship, with an open attitude to the world, respecting cultural diversity and based on common values in the European Union. | Change in perceptions of participants (in particular young people) in the activities of the year; Extent and tone of press and media coverage of the events (qualitative and quantitative) | 
Contribute to innovation and to the horizontal and trans-sectoral dimension of the approaches aiming at promoting the intercultural dialogue, in particular to young people | Number of projects involving promoters or networks from different sectors | 
Operational | Indicators | 
Information and awareness-raising campaigns at European level: | Number and type of information and promotion activities Improvement of the public’s awareness, in particular young people Media coverage of events supported by the Year % of population reached Production of tools to stimulate the interest of the general public | 
Surveys and studies | Coverage of the publication of the surveys and study on the theme of the Year | 
Events and initiatives at Community level | Number of organised events and share of the Community support Media coverage of events Number of participants in events supported by the Year (in particular young people) Improvement of the public’s awareness Proportion of the total budget used in order to support this operational objective (indicative target: 24 %) | 
Events and initiatives at national level | Number of organised events and share of the Community support Media coverage of national initiatives Multiplier effect (number of actions and initiatives at national, regional and local level sponsored but not financed by the Year) Proportion of the total budget used in order to support this operational objective (indicative target: 25%) | 
Indicators will be assessed on the basis of data collected by different sources: data collected by surveys and focus groups, continuous evaluation of the Year, and data collected by national organisms and relevant EC programme managers. 
6.2. Evaluation 
6.2.1. Ex-ante evaluation 
The ex-ante evaluation of the European Year is attached to this proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council. 
6.2.2. Measures taken following an intermediate/ex-post evaluation (lessons learned from similar experiences in the past) 
An external evaluation will be launched in the year preceding the European Year (2007) in order to follow-up monitoring of the Year and provide interim results if necessary. The results of this evaluation should be available in the middle of 2009. 
7. ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES 
See Articles 12 and 13 of the proposal for a Decision. 
8. DETAILS OF RESOURCES 
8.1. Objectives of the proposal in terms of their financial cost 
Commitment appropriations in EUR million (to 3 decimal places) 
2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 
Officials or temporary staff[14] (XX 01 01) | A*/AD | 2 | 2 | 0.5 | 
B*, C*/AST | 1 | 1 | 0.5 | 
Staff financed[15] by Article XX 01 02 | 1 | 2 | 1 | 
Other staff financed[16] by Article XX 01 04/05 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 
TOTAL | 4 | 5 | 2 | 
- 8.3.2. Description of tasks deriving from the action 
A officials: advisory committee, drawing up invitations to tender, monitoring grants to Member States, information campaign, event, studies and press releases 
B officials: financial monitoring of bids and grants, general assistance to A officials with all tasks 
C officials: assistance with all tasks referred to above 
8.3.3. Sources of human resources (statutory) 
ٱ Posts currently allocated to the management of the programme to be replaced or extended 
1 Posts pre-allocated within the APS/PDB exercise for 2006 
1 Posts to be requested in the 2007 SPA/APB procedure 
1 Posts to be redeployed using existing resources within the managing service (internal redeployment) 
ٱ Posts required for year n although not foreseen in the APS/PDB exercise of the year in question 
Other administrative expenditure included in reference amount (XX 01 04/05 – Expenditure on administrative management) 
NOT APPLICABLE 
EUR million (to 3 decimal places) 
Budget line (number and heading) | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | TOTAL | 
Other technical and administrative assistance | 0 | 0 | 0 | 
- intra muros | 
- extra muros | 
Total technical and administrative assistance | 0 | 0 | 0 | 
8.3.4. Financial cost of human resources and associated costs not included in the reference amount 
EUR million (to 3 decimal places) 
Type of human resources | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 
Officials and temporary staff (XX 01 01) | 0.324 | 0.324 | 0.054 | 
Staff financed by Article XX 01 02 (auxiliary, END, contract staff, etc.) (specify budget line) | 0.054 | 0.108 | 0.054 | 
Total cost of human resources and associated costs (NOT in reference amount) | 0.378 | 0.432 | 0.108 | 
Calculation– Officials and temporary agents 
Reference should be made to Point 8.2.1, if applicable 
The guidelines stipulate a standard cost of 108 000 euro for officials (staff and connected costs). 
. 
Calculation– Staff financed under Article XX 01 02 
Reference should be made to Point 8.2.1, if applicable 
8.3.5. Other administrative expenditure not included in reference amount EUR million (to 3 decimal places) | 
2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | TOTAL | 
XX 01 02 11 01 – Missions | 0.010 | 0.030 | 0.040 | 
XX 01 02 11 02 – Meetings and conferences | 
XX 01 02 11 03 - Committees[18] | 0.016 | 0.034 | 0.016 | 0. 066 | 
XX 01 02 11 04 - Studies and consultations | 
XX 01 02 11 05 - Information systems | 
2. Total other management expenditure (XX 01 02 11) | 0.026 | 0.064 | 0.016 | 0.106 | 
3. Other expenditure of an administrative nature (specify including reference to budget line) | 
Total administrative expenditure, other than human resources and associated costs (NOT included in reference amount) | 0.026 | 0.064 | 0.016 | 0.106 | 
Calculation - Other administrative expenditure not included in reference amount 
Missions: average of 2 missions in 25 countries x 800 € 
Advisory committee: 4 meetings x 25 participants x 665 € 
Human resources and administrative requirements will be covered by the global envelope allocated to the authorising DG of reference in the framework of the annual allocation procedure. 
[1] Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All (2007). Towards a just society - COM(2005) 225, 1.6.2005. 
[2] For the purpose of the present decision, the notion of “active European citizenship” does not cover only citizens of the European Union as defined in Article 17 of the EC Treaty, but any individual living permanently or temporarily in the European Union. 
[3] OJ C , p. 
[4] OJ C, p. 
[5] OJ C, p. 
[6] OJ C , p. 
[7] Communication from the Commission. European Neighbourhood Policy - Strategy paper - COM(2004) 373, 12.5.2004. 
[8] See the Commission communication to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the regions on civil society dialogue between the EU and candidate countries of 29.6.2005 – COM(2005) 290. 
[9] OJ C 172, 18.6.1999, p.1. 
[10] Expenditure that does not fall under Chapter xx 01 of the Title xx concerned. 
[11] Expenditure within chapter xx, other than Articles xx and xx. 
[12] See points 19 and 24 of the Interinstitutional Agreement. 
[13] If a number of methods are indicated, please provide details in the “Comments” section. 
[14] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. 
[15] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. 
[16] Cost of which is included within the reference amount. 
[17] Reference should be made to the specific legislative financial statement for the Executive Agency(ies) concerned. 
[18] Specify the type of committee and the group to which it belongs. 
