Proposal for a Council Decision on the appointment of the Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe /* COM/2006/0656 final */ 
[pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | 
Brussels, 31.10.2006 
COM(2006) 656 final 
Proposal for a 
COUNCIL DECISION 
on the appointment of the Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe 
(presented by the Commission) 
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 
The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe (SP) is a regional policy framework set up by the international community in Cologne on 10 June 1999 in order to support the countries in that region in their efforts to foster peace, democracy, respect for human rights and economic prosperity, and to achieve stability in the region as a whole. Paragraph 13 of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe stipulates that the Stability Pact will have a Special Coordinator appointed by the European Union, after consultation with the OSCE Chairman in Office and other participants, and endorsed by the OSCE Chairman in Office. 
Further to Council Regulation (EC) No 1080/2000 of 22 May 2000 on support for the United Nations Interim Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina (OHR) and the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe (SP), the Council, acting on a proposal by the Commission, appoints the Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact on a yearly basis. 
It is therefore proposed for the Council to adopt, before 31 December 2006, a decision on the appointment of a Special Coordinator, which will apply from 1 January 2007 until 31 December 2007. 
The Commission has consulted the OSCE Chairman in Office and other participants in the Stability Pact and proposes that the Council reappoints Dr Erhard Busek as Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact. The mandate of the Special Coordinator is drawn from the one laid down in Council Decision (EC) No 2005/912 of 12 December 2005 on the appointment of the Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe for the year 2006. Further to the conclusions of the Regional Table of the Stability Pact which endorsed on 30 May 2006 in Belgrade a transition plan to regional ownership and in accordance with the Council Conclusions of 12 June 2006, the mandate shall put a special emphasis on the agreed transition to regional ownership and the necessary liaison to the South East European Cooperation Process. 
Proposal for a 
COUNCIL DECISION 
on the appointment of the Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, 
Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 1080/2000 of 22 May 2000 on support for the United Nations Interim Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK), the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina (OHR) and the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe (SP)[1], and in particular Article 1a thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[2], 
Whereas: 
(1) On 10 June 1999 the Foreign Ministers of the Member States of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities, together with the other participants in the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, agreed to establish a Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, hereinafter called the ‘Stability Pact’. 
(2) Article 1a of Council Regulation (EC) No 1080/2000 provides for the Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact to be appointed on an annual basis. 
(3) It is necessary to establish, together with the appointment, a mandate for the Special Coordinator. Experience has shown that the mandate laid down in Council Decision (EC) No 2005/912 of 12 December 2005 on the appointment of the Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe[3] for 2006 is appropriate. Further to the conclusions of the Regional Table of the Stability Pact which endorsed on 30 May 2006 in Belgrade a transition plan to regional ownership, and in accordance with the Council conclusions of 12 June 2006, the mandate shall put a special emphasis on the requirements of this transition. 
(4) It is appropriate to lay down clear lines of responsibility as well as guidance on coordination and reporting, 
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: 
Article 1 
Dr Erhard BUSEK is hereby appointed Special Coordinator of the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe. 
Article 2 
The Special Coordinator shall carry out the functions provided for in point 13 of the Stability Pact document of 10 June 1999. 
Article 3 
In order to achieve the objective referred to in Article 2, the mandate of the Special Coordinator shall be to: 
(a) promote achievement of the Pact's objectives within, and between, the individual countries, where the Pact proves to have an added value; 
(b) chair the South-Eastern Europe Regional Table; 
(c) maintain close contact with all participants and facilitating States, organisations and institutions of the Stability Pact, as well as relevant regional initiatives and organisations, with a view to fostering regional cooperation and enhancing regional ownership; 
(d) cooperate closely with all institutions of the European Union and its Member States in order to promote the role of the European Union in the Pact in accordance with points 18, 19, and 20 of the Stability Pact document and to ensure complementarity between the work of the Stability Pact and the Stabilisation and Association Process; 
(e) meet periodically and collectively as appropriate with the Chairs of the Working Tables to ensure strategic overall coordination and act as the secretariat of the South-Eastern Europe Regional Table and its instruments; 
(f) work on the basis of a list, agreed in advance and in consultation with the participants in the Stability Pact, of priority actions for the Stability Pact to implement during 2007, and adjust the working methods and structures of the Stability Pact to the needs of the transition to regional ownership, ensuring consistency and efficient use of resources; 
(g) facilitate the implementation of the transition to regional ownership in accordance to the conclusions of the Regional Table on 30 May 2006 and to this purpose work closely with the South East European Cooperation Process and its Secretary General when designated; particular attention shall be given to the establishment of the Regional Cooperation Council and of a regional cooperation secretariat as well as on the streamlining of the various Task-Forces and initiatives of the Stability Pact. 
Article 4 
The Special Coordinator shall conclude a financing agreement with the Commission. 
Article 5 
The activities of the Special Coordinator shall be coordinated with those of the Secretary General of the Council/High Representative for the CFSP, the Presidency of the Council and the Commission, notably in the framework of the Informal Consultative Committee. In the field, close liaison shall be maintained with the Presidency of the Council, the Commission, the Member States’ Heads of Mission, the Special Representatives of the European Union, as well as with the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United Nations Civil Administration in Kosovo. 
Article 6 
The Special Coordinator shall report, as appropriate, to the Council and the Commission. He will continue to inform the European Parliament regularly about his activities. 
Article 7 
This Decision shall take effect on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union . 
It shall apply from 1 January 2007 until 31 December 2007. 
Done at Brussels, 
For the Council 
The President 
[1] OJ L 122, 24.5.2000, p.27. Regulation as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 2098/2003 of 27 November 2003 (OJ L 316, 29.11.2003, p.1). 
[2] OL C […] […], p. […] 
[3] OJ L 331, 17.12.2005, p.32. 
