Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and to the Council - Thematic Programme on Cooperation with Industrialised and other High-income Countries under the future Financial Perspectives (2007-2013) /* COM/2006/0025 final */ 
[pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | 
Brussels, 25.1.2006 
COM(2006) 25 final 
COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL 
Thematic Programme on Cooperation with Industrialised and other High-income Countries under the future Financial Perspectives (2007-2013) 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Introduction 3 
2. Context 3 
2.1. Scope 3 
2.2. Justification for a Thematic Programme 4 
2.3. Existing policy and cooperation framework and past experience 5 
2.3.1. Non-EU OECD countries 5 
2.3.2. Newly industrialised Asian countries and territories 6 
2.3.3. Gulf Cooperation Council countries 7 
3. Main features of the TPIC 8 
3.1. Overall aim 8 
3.2. Specific objectives 8 
3.3. Main priorities 8 
3.4. Programming principles 10 
ANNEXES 12 
COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL 
Thematic Programme on Cooperation with Industrialised and other High-income Countries under the future Financial Perspectives (2007-2013) 
1. INTRODUCTION 
In order to rationalise and simplify the current legislative framework governing external actions of the Community, the European Commission has proposed a new framework of six instruments under the 2007-2013 Financial Perspectives. Three of the instruments (for humanitarian aid, for stability and for macro-financial assistance) are horizontal in nature in order to respond to particular needs and circumstances. The other three instruments (for pre-accession assistance, for supporting the European Neighbourhood and Partnership policy and for development cooperation and economic cooperation) are designed to implement particular policies and have a defined geographical coverage. In future, these instruments will form the basic legislative acts for Community expenditures in support of external cooperation programmes, including appropriate thematic programmes and will replace, inter alia, the existing thematic regulations. 
Thematic programmes provide a distinct added value through implementing activities to complement geographical programmes, which remain the principal framework for Community cooperation with third countries. 
The Commission has undertaken to discuss the scope, objectives and priorities for each thematic programme with the European Parliament and the Council based on formal communications to both Institutions[1]. The results of this process will provide the policy orientations for the subsequent stages of programming, and in particular for the thematic strategy papers to be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the above instruments. 
2. CONTEXT 
2.1. Scope 
The EU has consistently strengthened its bilateral relations with a broad range of developed countries and newly industrialised countries and territories over the past decade across different regions of the world: primarily North America, East Asia and Australasia, but also South-East Asia and the Gulf region. The envisaged Thematic Programme for cooperation with Industrialised and other High-income Countries (TPIC) lays down a framework for widening and deepening cooperation and engagement with these industrialised countries and territories which, despite their geographic spread, structural differences and variable size, are committed to developing their bilateral relations with the EU . Cooperation between the EU and these countries is primarily guided by the EU’s own policy objectives – although pursuit of these objectives will produce benefits for all concerned. 
Implemented under the planned Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument[2] (DCECI), the TPIC’s main focus will be on those partner countries which share similar political, economic and institutional structures and values to the EU and which are important bilateral political and trading partners for the EU as well as major players in multilateral fora and in global governance. But, it will also address other newly industrialised countries and territories with which the Union has a strategic interest in promoting its political and economic links and influence. 
The geographical coverage of the TPIC therefore encompasses: 
1. key non-EU OECD countries[3]: the United States, Japan, Canada, the Republic of Korea, Australia and New Zealand; 
2. certain Asian industrialised countries and territories which are excluded from the DAC[4] list of ODA recipients: Singapore, Hong Kong, Macao, Brunei and Chinese Taipei; 
3. Gulf Cooperation Council countries which are excluded from the DAC list of ODA recipients: Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia[5]. 
In future, the extension of the geographical scope of the TPIC may be considered if and when countries or territories covered by the DCECI were to be excluded from the DAC list of ODA recipients. The resources allocated to this programme would then be revised accordingly 
2.2. Justification for a Thematic Programme 
Relations and related cooperation programmes with TPIC countries and territories have developed at different speeds, on the basis of different legal bases and within different political frameworks[6], reflecting inter alia the diversity of the countries concerned – in terms of size, culture, population, bilateral economic links and trade flows with the EU. 
There are no bilateral country strategies and indicative programmes for cooperation with industrialised countries. Shared policy goals and co-operation objectives laid down in the various bilateral instruments (such as framework agreements, cooperation agreements, political declarations, cooperation agendas and action plans[7]) which govern relations between the European Union and the partner countries will determine the cooperation initiatives under the TPIC. However, these initiatives are designed to complement and reinforce government to government dialogue between the EU and these countries through independent cooperation between a broad range of actors on a wide array of policy issues. Financial support for cooperation with industrialised countries will essentially be focused on stimulating initiatives from, and interaction between economic, social actors and other private and public-law bodies in the EU and partner countries, through which bilateral relations will be strengthened. 
This type of cooperation activity between the EU and the TPIC partner countries could not be addressed appropriately through geographic programmes[8], within the meaning of the DCECI. Hence the need for a dedicated Thematic Programme to develop collaborative initiatives in pursuit of an agenda driven by the EU’s strategic objectives. Economies of scale, synergy effects, greater effectiveness and visibility will be achieved by organising the diversified bilateral cooperation initiatives within a single framework. This is all the more likely, as some of these initiatives could be of regional nature. 
2.3. Existing policy and cooperation framework and past experience 
Bilateral cooperation with the countries and territories targeted by the TPIC has been guided in the past by a broad array of legally binding and non-binding instruments, as described in Annex 1. The main past achievements and orientations under this framework are outlined below. 
2.3.1. Non-EU OECD countries 
The foundation stone for past and future cooperation with the United States, Canada, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia and New Zealand is the body of initiatives undertaken during the period 2001-2006 under Council Regulation (EC) No 382/2001. These reflect the cooperation agendas set out in various bilateral instruments. This institutional set-up has provided the framework in which to develop projects to support and invigorate the EU’s political and economic relations with these countries. It has also usefully complemented specific bilateral agreements between the Community and some of these countries, for instance in the fields of education and science and technology. 
Council Regulation (EC) No 382/2001 covers two overarching themes: a) the development of projects aimed at reinforcing bilateral cooperation with all the partner countries across a broad range of areas, and, b) the promotion of commercial relations with an exclusive focus on Japan and Korea. 
In terms of cooperation, the main initiatives that have been carried out are: 
- the establishment and development of a network of 27 EU Centres[9] at universities in the six partner countries. These seek to promote, within the partner countries, a better understanding of the European Union, its institutions, its history, its economy and its policies; 
- support for the New Transatlantic Agenda EU-US policy dialogue, the European Union and the United States Initiative to Enhance Transatlantic Economic Integration and Growth, and the Trade and Investment Enhancement Agreement with Canada; 
- development of activities that encourage policy research and debate by various think tanks and other organisations in the USA and Canada; 
- reinforcement of people-to-people links through initiatives such as transatlantic civil society dialogues, the EU-Japan year of people-to-people exchanges, or support for pilot projects in the field of higher education with Australia and New Zealand. There has also been a successful cooperation with the US and Japan in the area of employment and social policy with a focus on demographic trends, disability, equal opportunities, health and safety issues. 
In terms of the promotion of commercial relations, the objective of facilitating market access for EU companies and improving their business presence in Japan and Korea have been addressed through two main programmes: 
- a human resource development programme, the “Executive Training Programme in Japan and Korea”, which helps EU companies to develop Japan / Korea in-house expertise through language and business training for their key executives. To date, nearly 1 000 European executives have participated in this programme; 
- the EU Gateway to Japan campaign which is a commercial promotion programme aimed at assisting EU SMEs in their efforts to develop their business and expand their sales on the Japanese market through targeted trade missions. The current Gateway to Japan campaign is expected to introduce some 1 000 EU SMEs in the Japanese market over the period 2002-2006. 
Both of these programmes have been extended to the New Member States. 
The cooperation and the commercial activities altogether were the subject of an external evaluation in 2004[10] which concluded that these initiatives are relevant, effective and have a positive impact, and recommended that they should be continued and reinforced. 
2.3.2. Newly industrialised Asian countries and territories 
The TPIC also includes newly industrialised Asian countries and territories with whom the EU is engaged in long-term relations: Brunei, Hong Kong, Macao, Singapore and Chinese Taipei. The TPIC will make it possible to address cooperation needs with these countries, which, in the past could not be covered by the Asia and Latin America (ALA) Regulation[11] as a result of the focus of this instrument on developing countries. 
There is no specific bilateral agreement with Hong Kong. However, in a 1997 communication entitled “The EU and Hong Kong: Beyond 1997”, before Hong Kong’s return to China as a “Special Administrative Region” under the “one country, two systems” principle, the EU stated its intention to foster relations with the territory. Since then the Commission undertook to have a vigorous and effective engagement with the Hong Kong SAR and to explore ways to put trade investment and co-operation relations on a more permanent footing. 
The EU is committed to enhance bilateral trade and economic relations, and to help promote Macao as a hub for training and cultural exchanges. 
Relations with Chinese Taipei are based on respecting the one China policy. There are no diplomatic or political relations, but intensive contacts take place in the areas of economy, trade, science and technology, standards and norms and on a number of other fields. 
The EC-ASEAN agreement provides the framework for the institutionalised dialogue with Brunei and Singapore with a focus on trade, economic co-operation and development. The EU is aiming to establish a relationship with Singapore based on an up-to-date policy agenda focusing on a wide range of issues. This is being pursued, inter alia, through a new Bilateral Cooperation and Partnership Agreement, currently under negotiation. This agreement reflects Singapore’s prominent role in EU-South-East Asian relations in the fields of trade, business, education and research. 
2.3.3. Gulf Cooperation Council countries 
Finally, the TPIC includes the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council, which were previously covered under the ALA Regulation (see above). Thus, Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia also fall under the remit of the TPIC[12]. 
EU relations with Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates are governed by the 1989 Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). 
The European Union is seeking to enhance cooperation activities between economic, social and civil society actors in the EU and in the GCC countries within the framework of the Strategic Partnership for the Mediterranean and the Middle East, which was approved by the European Council in June 2004. The EU is therefore looking forward to enhancing cooperation activities along a small number of key orientations in order to better reflect the strategic nature of the relationship and advance EU interests in the region. 
The GCC is currently the EU's fifth largest export market. Owing to the large quantity of fuel shipped from the Gulf (69% of total EU imports from the GCC countries), the GCC is the EU’s fourteenth biggest source of imports. 
The Commission’s cooperation with the GCC is focused on energy and economic issues. There is a regular dialogue between experts on energy questions which has resulted in the launching of seminars, workshops and international conferences. Furthermore, an Economic Dialogue meeting was launched in 2003 with the aim of facilitating dialogue and better understanding on areas of shared interest. This dialogue should provide for a forum to exchange know-how and best practices on issues related to regional integration (e.g. customs union, economic and monetary union, competition law) as well as on other areas of interest for both parties (e.g. Iraq). 
3. MAIN FEATURES OF THE TPIC 
3.1. Overall aim 
The overall aim of the Thematic Programme for Cooperation with Industrialised Countries (TPIC) is to create a coherent framework further to develop relations between the European Union and the partner countries, and to promote the Union’s strategic interests in these countries. Supporting and invigorating the political dialogue and economic interaction with these partner countries through a set of practical co-operation actions will help broaden and deepen both bilateral and regional relations and make the EU a more recognised, better understood, and more sought-after actor on the international political scene. 
3.2. Specific objectives 
The specific objectives of the TPIC are therefore as follows: 
- to foster collaborative projects, cooperative linkages, economic partnerships, people-to-people exchanges and joint undertakings between actors in the EU and in partner countries; 
- to promote the development of policy dialogues and the dissemination of expertise between political, economic and social partners, as well as other civil society and non-state actors, in accordance with the overall goals for each partner country; 
- to promote a better understanding of the EU (its institutions, its policies, its positions on global challenges and its economic, social and political integration processes as well as the corresponding implications for its external relations,) with all parties in the partner countries, including opinion formers, decision and policy makers, business circles and professional associations, trade unions, consumer associations, environmental groups, political parties, the media, academia and other multipliers; 
- to influence positively the perceptions of individuals and of public and private organizations in the partner countries about the EU and to encourage their greater engagement with the EU in support of Community international policy objectives; 
- to stimulate bilateral trade, investment flows and customs cooperation between the EU and partner countries and foster collaborative action to strengthen the social and environmental dimension of globalisation. 
When appropriate, in order to foster regional cooperation, these objectives could be pursued through a regional approach. 
3.3. Main priorities 
In order to achieve significant impact, the above objectives will be achieved by focusing on a limited number of priorities. Depending on circumstances and opportunities, activities will be designed and implemented in the form of country-specific, regional or sectoral initiatives. The Commission will seek to ensure coherence between the activities supported across the countries, as has usually been the case as regards past cooperation with non-EU OECD countries. 
In the context of the objectives stated above, the main priorities proposed for the TPIC are: 
- Public diplomacy in particular through i) the consolidation and expansion of the existing network of EU Centres as centres of excellence and the establishment of new such EU Centres in partner countries where they do not exist, and measures to promote networking between EU Centres; ii) the development of activities that encourage policy research and debate by think tanks and other organisations on themes relevant to the development of bilateral relations between the EU and the partner countries. 
- Promotion of economic partnerships, business collaboration and science and technology cooperation . These could be achieved, inter alia, by helping EU companies to build up their capacity to handle more effectively the specific features of the market and business environment in the partner countries. In this context, existing programmes or initiatives whose lifecycle goes beyond 2006 should be continued (e.g. the Executive Training Programme to Japan and Korea) or reshaped (e.g. Gateway to Japan Campaign) as appropriate. Under this priority, the possibility of expanding the Euro-Info Correspondence Centres network to selected TPIC partner countries as a means to promote business linkages will be considered, as well as other measures to support the implementation of economic initiatives with partner countries. Furthermore, since most TPIC countries are focused on innovation and competitiveness and are seeking to develop a knowledge-based economy, there would be considerable value and common interest in fostering scientific and research cooperation activities. Although the purpose of the TPIC should not be to fund R%amp%D projects, it could support activities aimed at stimulating and facilitating the interaction between the research communities in the EU and the partner countries and their access to funding opportunities under the 7th Framework Programme. 
- People-to-people links including the development of education cooperation with those partner countries with which there is no bilateral education cooperation agreement[13]. Some of the TPIC countries are at the forefront of education and vocational policies and systems and host world-class higher education institutions. They therefore provide real potential for dynamic and mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of education and training. In this context, the possibility of a regional Asia-Pacific higher education cooperation initiative, which would provide a single framework for bilateral, regional and, if appropriate, multilateral cooperation between, on the one hand, the EU and, on the other hand, partner countries in the region, should be explored. This would aim to promote joint curriculum development and student/faculty mobility between EU institutions and partner countries’ institutions, fostering the dialogue on education policies, and other specific higher education initiatives. In addition to the single cooperation framework, the potential for cooperation in the field of education in the form of enhanced access to the Erasmus Mundus programme could be explored, for instance through an Erasmus Mundus “Asian Window” broadened towards East Asia, South-East Asia and Australasia, as well as the opening up of a Transatlantic window. The aim of such cooperation would be to stimulate the inflow of students and academics from the partner countries in Erasmus Mundus Masters’ Courses. The Commission may undertake discussions with the interested partner countries to agree on the procedures and, with a view to achieving a multiplier effect on the EU investment, explore with them the scope for matching contributions from their side. 
- Dialogues : in order to complement the formal policy dialogue at government level, the TPIC will provide support for dialogues activities with and between stakeholders in areas of strategic importance for co-operation with the partner country concerned, such as business; consumers; environment; energy and transport; employment, social policy and equal opportunities; the media, including the audiovisual sector etc., as well as actions to facilitate the exchange of information and best practice in the area of regulatory cooperation. This may also include the development of special visitors’ programmes focused on specific target groups (e.g. media professionals, regulators, social partners and other appropriate experts). 
- Outreach through targeted activities and events in the partner countries to stimulate interest in Europe and the EU, to increase the visibility of the European Union in partner countries, to help the public understand what the EU is and what it does, to raise awareness about EU policies and institutions and the EU’s role as an international actor on the economic and political stage, and to advance specific current or future cooperation objectives. 
In complement to the main cooperation areas indicated above, the TPIC should provide a sufficiently flexible framework to address and support country-specific areas of cooperation or new cooperation areas which may be identified in the future. 
3.4. Programming principles 
Four-year (2007-2010) and, subsequently, three-year (2011-2013) Thematic Strategy Papers (programming documents) will be decided by the Commission following the Comitology procedures. The Thematic Strategy Paper for industrialised countries will provide further detail on the policy priorities and translate these into planned actions. These documents will define the eligibility criteria for beneficiaries and spell out the type of actions to be undertaken. Complementarity with other Community programmes, particularly the other Thematic Programmes, as well as national and regional programmes will be sought, bearing in mind that, as there are no geographic programmes[14] for TPIC countries, the risks of overlap or duplication of efforts are limited. 
The Thematic Strategy Paper will provide an indicative budget breakdown between (i) eligible partner countries and territories, (ii) priorities for action and (iii) bilateral and multi-country / regional initiatives. It will also provide a breakdown for the financial allocations to fund both the operational expenditure and the administrative expenditure (technical assistance to the EC, studies and evaluations). On the basis of this multi-annual programming, the Commission shall produce annual work plans which establish the priority actions to be supported, specific objectives, anticipated results as well as indicative amounts. 
The programme will be managed by the Commission including, when appropriate, through deconcentration of management responsibilities to the EC delegations in the partner countries. 
Although it is not possible to define a mechanical distribution key, resource allocation will take into account, among other things, the past levels of Community financial intervention (see Annex 2) as well as the relative size of countries and the relative breadth, depth and magnitude of the political and economic relations between the EU and the partner countries. However, the need to achieve significant impact at country level will also be taken into consideration. 
When applicable, the Commission will seek co-sharing of the cost of activities with the partner countries concerned; however, this will not be a mandatory requirement since, in some instances (e.g. public diplomacy), the partner countries may consider the policy objectives of the EU to be of an adversarial nature. 
The Commission will prepare regular activity reports and the Commission services will also carry out a mid-term review. An external evaluation of the operations during the first three-year period (2007-2009) will be carried out to provide input to the preparation of the second Thematic Strategy Paper (2011-2013). The reports will be transmitted to, and discussed with, the Council and the European Parliament. 
ANNEXES 
ANNEX 1 - ESTABLISHED COOPERATION FRAMEWORK 
The key legal and policy tools for fostering cooperation with TPIC countries are as follows: 
1. OECD MEMBER COUNTRIES 
Council Regulation (EC) No 382/2001 of 26 February 2001 concerning the implementation of projects promoting cooperation and commercial relations between the European Union and the industrialised countries of North America, the Far East and Australasia, amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1900/2005 of 21 November 2005. 
The Transatlantic Declaration on EU/US Relations of 1990, and the New Transatlantic Agenda and Joint EU-US Action Plan of 1995; the European Union and the United States Initiative to Enhance Transatlantic Economic Integration and Growth adopted at the EU-US Summit in June 2005. 
The EU-Japan Action Plan adopted at the 10th EU-Japan bilateral summit of December 2001; 
The Framework Agreement on Trade and Cooperation with the Republic of Korea and its attached Political Declaration of October 1996; 
The 1997 Joint Declaration on Relations between Australia and the European Union and the 2003 Agenda for Cooperation; 
The Joint Declaration on Relations between the European Union and New Zealand of May 1999 and the 2004 Action Plan “Priorities for Future Cooperation”; 
The Framework Agreement for Commercial and Economic Cooperation between the European Community and Canada of 1976, the Declaration on European Community-Canada relations of 1990, the EU-Canada joint action plan of 1996 and the EU-Canada Partnership Agenda of 2004 
2. NEWLY INDUSTRIALISED ASIAN COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES 
The cooperation with Brunei, Chinese Taipei, Hong Kong, Macao (since 1999) and Singapore have been excluded from the Council Regulation (EEC) No 443/92 of 25 February 1992 on financial and technical assistance to, and economic cooperation with, the developing countries in Asia and Latin America (the “ALA” regulation), as a result of the status of these countries and territories as non-developing countries. 
However the European Union is engaged in long-term relations with these countries and territories: 
There is no specific bilateral agreement with Hong Kong, but the EU has explicitly stated its intention, before Hong Kong’s return to China as a “Special Administrative Region” under the “one country, two systems” principle, to foster relations with that territory. In a 1997 communication entitled “The EU and Hong Kong: Beyond 1997” the Commission undertook to have a vigorous and effective engagement with the Hong Kong SAR and to explore ways to put trade investment and cooperation relations on a more permanent footing. The EU is also engaged with Hong-Kong through a Customs Agreement (1999) and a Readmission Agreement (2002). Senior Officials Meetings between the Hong Kong SAR and the EC take place on a regular basis under an informal agreement. 
In the case of Macao our relations are based on a Trade and Co-operation Agreement concluded on 14 December 1992, which came into effect on 1 January 1993 and on the Commission communication of November 1999 entitled “The European Union and Macao: Beyond the Year 2000”. 
Although there are no diplomatic or political relations with Chinese Taipei, intensive contacts do take place in the areas of economy, trade, science and technology, standards and norms and on a number of other subjects. Since March 2003 the Commission also has a European Economic and Trade Office in Chinese Taipei. 
Relations with Brunei Darussalam and with Singapore are governed by the 1980 Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the ASEAN Countries (see Council Regulation (EC) No 1440/80 of 30 May 1980 concerning the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the European Community and Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, member countries of the Association of the South-East Asian Nations, and the Protocol on the extension of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, member countries of the Association of the South-East Asian Nations, to Brunei-Darussalam (OJ L 81, 23.3.1985). Negotiations with the City-State for a new Bilateral Cooperation and Partnership Agreement have been launched and are being intensively pursued. 
3. GULF COOPERATION COUNCIL COUNTRIES 
EU relations with Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, are governed by a Cooperation Agreement signed in 1989 between the European Community and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). 
Negotiations for an EU-GCC Free Trade Agreement were opened in 1990 and re-launched in 2001. The Commission is seeking to conclude these negotiations as soon as possible. Beyond these contractual relations, a political dialogue takes place once a year at Ministerial level and includes discussions on human rights, regional issues of common interest and security-related topics such as counter-terrorism cooperation and non-proliferation. 
ANNEX 2 - RECENT INTERVENTIONS BASED ON THE PRESENT THEMATIC BUDGET LINE 
Budget line 19-05-02 Relations with non-EU OECD countries: period 2003-2006 
Breakdown per partner country (and main activities) | Instruments | Amount (€) | 
Cooperation with the USA (main activities: EU Centres, Public diplomacy, Outreach actions, Transatlantic dialogue activities) (1) | Call for proposals and Call for Tenders | 10.704.956 | 
Cooperation with Canada (main activities: EU Centres, Public diplomacy, Academic Links) (1) | Call for proposals and Call for Tenders | 2.913.866 | 
Cooperation with Japan (main activities: EU Centres, People to People exchanges …) | Call for Proposals | 3.164.179 | 
Cooperation with Korea (EU Centre) | Call for Proposals | 859.055 | 
Cooperation with Australia and New Zealand (EU Centres, higher education cooperation projects) | Call for Proposals | 4.590.000 | 
Economic and Commercial Promotion Programmes: - Gateway to Japan Campaign - Executive Training Programme | Call for proposals and Call for Tenders (Scholarships) | 12.678.071 28.918.530 | 
Small scale cooperation projects, evaluations, etc... | Contracts, grants | 1.172.246 | 
TOTAL | 65.000.903 | 
(1) Education cooperation with the US and Canada are implemented and funded separately on the basis of specific bilateral cooperation agreements. 
[1] See Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on “External Actions through Thematic Programmes under the Future Financial Perspectives 2007-2013” - COM(2005) 324, 3.8.2005. 
[2] Commission Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation and economic cooperation - COM(2004) 629, 29.9.2004. 
[3] To date covered by Council Regulation (EC) No 382/2001 of 26 February 2001 concerning the implementation of projects promoting cooperation and commercial relations between the European Union and the industrialised countries of North America, the Far East and Australasia and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1035/1999. 
[4] The Development Assistance Committee is the principal body through which the OECD deals with issues related to co-operation with developing countries. 
[5] Saudi Arabia is expected to be removed from the DAC list of Upper - Middle Income Developing Countries by 2008. Should the provision laid down in the DCECI make it possible, Oman may also be included in this third category. 
[6] See Annex 1. 
[7] See Annex 1. 
[8] These are essentially external assistance programmes jointly endorsed with partner countries and focused on their development needs. 
[9] 15 Centres in the US, 5 in Canada, 1 in Australia, 1 in New Zealand and 2 in Japan. The expansion of the EU Centre network in Australia (2 more Centres), its rationalisation in the US and its extension to Korea (1 Centre) are currently under way. 
[10] Evaluation of the Executive training programme and the third Gateway to Japan Campaign – JITEX Expertise Technologique et Stratégique – 23 July 2004; Evaluation of the establishment and development of EU Centres – The Evaluation Partnership – September 2004. 
[11] Council Regulation (EEC) No 443/92 of 25 February 1992 on financial and technical assistance to, and economic cooperation with, the developing countries in Asia and Latin America. Macao has previously benefitted from co-operation activities financed under the ALA Regulatiuon, but, is no longer eligible for such assistance. 
[12] When activities will have a regional character, these may also include Oman. 
[13] To date such agreements are only in place with the USA and Canada. 
[14] This is without prejudice to the possible involvement of some TPIC countries in regional programmes within the meaning of the DCECI. For example, Brunei or Singapore could participate to an ASEAN-wide programme independently of (but in complementarity with) their participation in the TPIC. 
