Publication of an application pursuant to Article 6(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 510/2006 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs 
Publication of an application pursuant to Article 6(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 510/2006 on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs 
(2006/C 148/07) 
This publication confers the right to object to the application pursuant to Article 7 of Council Regulation (EC) No 510/2006. Statements of objection must reach the Commission within six months from the date of this publication. 
SUMMARY 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 510/2006 
Application for registration according to Article 5 and Article 17(2) 
%quot%COLIFLOR DE CALAHORRA%quot% 
EC No: ES/0268/ 15.1.2003 
PDO ( ) PGI ( X ) 
This summary has been drawn up for information only. For full details, interested parties are invited to consult the full version of the product specification obtainable from the national authorities indicated in section 1 or from the European Commission [1]. 
1. Responsible department in the Member State: 
Name: | Subdirección General de Sistemas de Calidad Diferenciada — Dirección General de Alimentación — Secretaría General de Agricultura y Alimentación del Ministerio de Agricultura, Pesca y Alimentación de España | 
Address: | Infanta Isabel, 1/E-28071 Madrid | 
Tel. | (34-91) 347 53 94 | 
Fax | (34-91) 347 54 10 | 
e-mail: | sgcaproagro@mapya.es | 
2. Group: 
Name: | Asociación Profesional de Productores y Comercializadores de Coliflor | 
Address: | C/Doctor Fleming, 12 — 1o Calahorra (La Rioja) | 
Tel. | (34-941) 14 77 21 | 
Fax | – | 
e-mail: | – | 
Composition: | Producers/processors ( X ) Other ( ) | 
3. Type of product: 
Class 1.6. — Cauliflower. 
4. Specification (summary of requirements under Article 4(2)) 
Name : %quot%Coliflor de Calahorra%quot% 
Description 1. The cauliflowers covered by the Protected Geographical Indication %quot%Coliflor de Calahorra%quot% are inflorescences of Brassica oleracea L. Convar. Botrytis (L.) Alef var. Botrytis, grown from hybrid varieties Nautilus, Castelgrand, Arbond, Pierrot, Armetta, Fargo, Belot, Scaler, Mayfair, Daydrean, Arthur, RS-91013, Dunkl, Fortrose, Jerome, Matra, Tucson, Aviso, Cafano, Admirable, Imola, Serrano, Nomad, Midar, 5090, Kerjo, Eclipse, Kimball, Astral, Regata, RS-84299, Arven and Astoria, belonging to the %quot%Extra%quot% and %quot%I%quot% classes, to be supplied fresh to the consumer, cauliflowers for industrial processing being excluded. 
The differentiating characteristics of the cauliflowers covered by this Geographical Indication are freshness, firmness, colour and presentation — they may not be grainy and must have a firmness index higher than 0.5. 
2. Most of the vegetative material which exists on the market of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja is hybrid, since this ensures better quality, greater uniformity, resistance to disease, higher yields and greater adaptability. The appropriate soil and climatic conditions of the protected area allow a combination of varieties in different cycles, resulting in staggered production and higher prices thanks to lower supply and greater demand. 
Varieties, subjected to previous trials and found to be within the quality parameters required, may be added each year subject to an application by the Asociación Profesional de Productores y Comercializadores de Coliflor, a favourable technical report from the ICAR and final approval by the Consejo de Coordinación. 
Geographical area : The production area corresponds to that for preserving, preparing and packaging in order to maintain quality and ensure traceability and inspection. It comprises the following municipalities belonging to the district of Rioja Baja: Aguilar de río Alhama, Aldeanueva de Ebro, Alfaro, Arnedo, Autol, Calahorra, Cervera de río Alhama, Pradejón, Quel and Rincón de Soto, and the municipality of Alcanadre situated in Rioja Media, the delimitation of the area being based on weather, soil and cultivation considerations. 
Proof of origin - The characteristics of the cauliflower 
- Inspection and certification, guaranteeing traceability and origin 
Preparation, packaging and preservation will take place in the designated geographical area and in the plants listed in the Registers in order to safeguard quality and guarantee traceability and inspection. 
Method of production : 
Planting takes place when the plant has two to four true leaves. The density is 0.40 × 0.80 m in the case of early varieties and 0.40 × 0.90 m in that of later varieties. They are then watered to ensure good rooting. 
Soil management, irrigation and pest and disease control use the techniques and applications most appropriate at the time. 
Harvesting takes place by hand, with the greatest care and speed when the inflorescences are fully formed and covered by the inner leaves. They are selected by size and degree of firmness to ensure optimal preservation and quality. As many runs as necessary are undertaken on each plot, and no more than 12 hours may elapse between harvesting and placing in store. 
Preparation before placing in store is carried out in the field and entails cleaning, removal of leaves, classification and packaging. Once in store the cauliflowers are chilled to remove %quot%field heat%quot%. This takes place in the designated geographical area and in the plants listed in the Registers in order to safeguard quality and guarantee traceability and inspection. 
They are packed in single-layer boxes so that they cannot move. Boxes are uniform as regards origin, variety, quality, colour and size. Packing takes place in the designated geographical area and in the plants listed in the Registers in order to safeguard quality and guarantee traceability and inspection. 
The cauliflowers are kept in cold stores at a low temperature (not below zero) and high relative humidity. They must be kept apart from other vegetables and fruit. This takes place in the designated geographical area and in the plants listed in the Registers, in order to safeguard quality and guarantee traceability and inspection. 
Link : 
Historical link: cauliflowers have been grown in Calahorra since time immemorial and their quality has always been recognised, as can be seen from Madoz's 1846 Diccionario Geográfico-Estadístico-Histórico de España, where page 59 of the volume on La Rioja concerning Calahorra notes that its main products are oil, wine and cereals; it also grows good vegetables, potatoes and fruit; its cherries and cauliflowers are very famous. 
Over the last 30 years cauliflowers from La Rioja have occupied a privileged position on Spanish markets and are one of the crops which have maintained a consistent level of area and production, in both cases the highest in Spain, at 25 %. La Rioja is also the main region of Spain for the marketing of cauliflowers and acts as a reference market for the setting of cauliflower prices in other regions. 
Natural factors: cauliflowers are a crop highly influenced by climatic factors, requiring mild temperatures and high relative humidity if they are to develop to their best. 
The area of production of La Rioja cauliflowers enjoys long summers, mild winters sheltered from strong winds by the fact that the valley lies between mountains, and relatively high humidity owing to the influence of the Ebro and Cidacos rivers. 
The mild temperatures without sharp changes in summer, when the plants are young, mean that they develop good root systems. In autumn and winter the first flowers appear and than the heart forms. As temperatures fall gradually, the cauliflower develops slowly, resulting in its being firm and white — the features which determine its quality and reputation. 
Soils in the region are alluvial, deep, rich and well-drained, with a pH between 5.5 and 8.2, organic matter levels over 1.2 %, phosphorus content of 20-30 ppm, potassium content of 200-250 ppm and adequate lime and sulphur. These characteristics are ideal for cauliflowers, which find the nutrients they require to achieve a rate of growth directly determining their quality. 
Human factors: the local farmers have grown cauliflowers since the dawn of time and know that the most delicate phase is harvesting, so they pay special attention to cutting the plants at the best time, when the cauliflowers are of the right size, firmness and quality. 
Another important factor is the level of partnerships in the area, linked with a commercial structure of warehouses, cooperatives and producers' organisations, all with a great deal of experience and market knowledge, which is the best way of concentrating supply, promoting quality and reducing seasonality, so considerably increasing the value of the product. 
The reputation of cauliflowers produced in La Rioja is due to their high quality, thanks to soil and climate conditions which are ideal for this crop and the extensive knowledge which farmers in the area have of it. 
Name: | Instituto de Calidad de La Rioja | 
Address: | Avd. de La Paz, 8-10, E-26071 Logroño (La Rioja) | 
Tel. | (34-941) 29 16 00 | 
Fax | (34-941) 29 16 02 | 
e-mail: | – | 
Inspection body Labelling : Labels must bear the words Indicación Geográfica Protegida %quot%Coliflor de Calahorra%quot%, and the relevant logo. 
National requirements - Organic Law No 3/1982 of 9 June 1982, Statute of Autonomy of La Rioja (as amended by Organic Laws Nos 3/1994 of 24 March 1994 and 2/1999 of 7 January 1999); 
- Law No 3/1995 of 8 March 1995, Legal System applicable to the Government and Public Administration of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja; 
- Law No 30/1992 of 26 November 1992. Legal System applicable to Public Administration and the Common Administrative Procedure; 
- Order of 25 January 1994 specifying the correlation between Spanish law and Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 as regards designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs; 
- Royal Decree No 1643/1999 of 22 October 1999 governing the procedure on applications for entry into the Community Register of Protected Designations of Origin and Protected Geographical Indications. 
[1] European Commission, Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, Agricultural Product Quality Policy, B-1049 Brussels. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
