Imposition by France of public service obligations on scheduled air services within France 
(2004/C 306/04) 
1. France has decided to impose public service obligations on scheduled air services between Bergerac (Roumanières) and Paris (Orly) and between Périgueux (Bassillac) and Paris (Orly) pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 of 23 July 1992 on access for Community air carriers to intra-Community air routes. These obligations replace those published in Official Journal of the European Communities C 395 of 18 December 1998 and C 18 of 22 January 2002. 
2. From 1 April 2005, the public service obligations in respect of scheduled air services between Bergerac (Roumanières) and Paris (Orly) and between Périgueux (Bassillac) and Paris (Orly) will be as follows: 
Minimum frequency 
The services must be operated throughout the year with at least: 
- two return trips a day, morning and evening, from Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays, 220 days a year, 
- one return trip on Saturday and Sunday, 44 weeks a year. 
The route must be as follows: Bergerac (Roumanières) — Périgueux (Bassillac) — Paris (Orly) and vice versa, with no other stops. 
Type of aircraft used 
The services must be operated with a pressurised aircraft having a seating capacity of at least: 
- 120 seats a day, from Monday to Friday inclusive, excluding public holidays 
- 60 seats on Saturdays and Sundays 
Timetables 
Timetables must be such as to enable passengers on business trips during the working week to make the round trip within the day and to spend at least eight hours at their destination, whether Paris, Périgueux or Bergerac. 
Flight bookings 
Seats on these flights must be marketed by at least one computerised booking system, both in Périgueux and Bergerac and in Paris. 
Continuity of service 
Except in cases of force majeure, the number of flights cancelled for reasons directly attributable to the carrier must not exceed 3 % of the number of flights scheduled in any year. The carrier must give six months' notice before discontinuing the services. 
Community carriers are hereby informed that the operation of air services without regard to the abovementioned public service obligation may result in administrative and/or criminal penalties. 
3. Slots have been reserved at Paris (Orly) airport for the scheduled Périgueux (Bassillac) — Paris (Orly) service pursuant to Article 9 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 of 18 January 1993 on common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 793/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004. Air carriers interested in this route can obtain information about the allocation of these slots from the Paris airports coordinator. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
