Special Report No 7/2006 concerning rural development investments: do they effectively address the problems of rural areas? Together with the Commission's replies 
Special report No 7/2006 
concerning rural development investments: do they effectively address the problems of rural areas? 
together with the Commission's replies 
(pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 248(4) of the EC Treaty) 
(2006/C 282/01) 
CONTENTS 
Glossary of terms and abbreviations 
I-VII EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
1-15 INTRODUCTION 
1-3 Background 
4-10 Description of the rural development investments 
4-5 The legal basis 
6-8 The objectives 
9-10 The implementation 
11-15 Audit scope and approach 
11-13 Audit questions 
14-15 Audit approach 
16-63 OBSERVATIONS 
16-28 Audit question 1: Does the EU have a clear strategy and a coherent approach to rural development policy, and are they adequately defined in Member State programmes? 
16-18 Clarity of the strategy 
19-28 A coherent approach for rural development 
29-39 Audit question 2: Are those projects selected for EU financing based on criteria which best address the needs of rural areas? 
29-34 Conditions and selection procedures 
35-39 Deadweight 
40-52 Audit question 3: Have the projects been implemented in rural areas and have they had an impact? 
40-46 The location of projects 
47-52 Results and impacts of the projects reviewed on the spot 
53-63 Audit question 4: Are the outputs, results and impacts properly monitored and evaluated? 
53-63 The overall framework of the monitoring and evaluation system 
64-69 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
Annex I — List of projects audited in the Member States 
Annex II — Definitions of rural areas — Benchmarks used for the audit 
Annex III — Examples of results and impacts of projects reviewed 
The Commission's replies 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
TERMS 
Beneficiary the final recipient of an EU payment. 
Impact longer-term socio-economic consequences that can be observed a certain period after the completion of an intervention, which may affect either direct addressees of the intervention or indirect addressees falling outside the boundary of the intervention, who may be winners or losers. 
NUTS Nomenclature of Statistical Territorial Units, the EU's common classification for regional statistics, which divides each Member State into a hierarchy of regions (labelled NUTS I, II, III and LAU I and II) depending on national administrative units. 
Leader an initiative financed by the structural funds designed to help rural actors. 
Output that which is produced or accomplished with the resources allocated to an intervention (e.g. farm equipment purchased by a farmer, road built in a village). 
Result immediate changes that arise for direct addressees during or at the end of their participation in an intervention (e.g. improved accessibility to an area due to the construction of a road, more efficient production on a farm). 
Urban area a geographical area which does not have the characteristics of a rural area. Different typologies exist which classify areas into rural and urban, for instance based on population density. 
ABBREVIATIONS 
CAP common agricultural policy. 
DG AGRI Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development. 
EAGGF European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund. 
ESPON European Spatial Planning Observation Network. 
GDP gross domestic product. 
LAU local administrative unit. 
LFA less-favoured area. 
OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
OP operational programme. 
RD rural development. 
RDP rural development programme. 
SWOT strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, threats. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
I. Rural areas face significant challenges such as depopulation and a scarcity of economic opportunities. The EU contribution for rural development for the period 2000 to 2006 is more than 60 billion euro. Around 40 % of this budget is used for rural development investments. They cover a wide range of projects, for which management and implementation is shared by the Commission and the Member States (see paragraphs 1 to 10). 
II. This report concerns observations on the Court’s audit on rural development investments. The audit sought to reply to the following overall question: %quot%To what extent do the outcomes of investment measures address effectively the problems of rural areas?%quot% (see paragraphs 3 and 11 to 15). 
III. The flexibility of the Rural Development Regulation (broad objectives, lack of priorities) and the lack of a clear strategy in the Member State programmes have led to a situation where it is unclear to which objective the funds have contributed. Member States’ programmes focus largely on the agricultural sector and do not sufficiently take into account the characteristics of the geographical area supported (see paragraphs 16 to 28). 
IV. There is a lack of effective conditions and selection procedures, to target funds on the most needy geographical areas and beneficiaries (see paragraphs 29 to 34). A lack of effective targeting also leads to a risk of increased deadweight effects, which reduce the effectiveness of the aid (see paragraphs 35 to 39). 
V. A significant part of the expenditure is implemented in areas which are not predominantly rural. When compared to the previous programming period, investment support for rural areas decreased significantly (see paragraphs 40 to 46). 
VI. It was not always possible to identify the effects of the projects, but when this could be done key factors which increased their effectiveness were synergy with other projects and being sited in rural areas (see paragraphs 47 to 52). Shortcomings were also found in the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system (see paragraphs 53 to 63). 
VII. Overall, the Court finds that no assessment can be made whether rural development investments are effective. Objectives are too broad and strategies to implement the policy are lacking. There is no balanced achievement of the two main objectives of the RD policy. In order to achieve this, the Commission should work with the Member States towards improved effectiveness of the policy. Important elements in this respect include clarifying the objectives and developing principles of effective targeting (see paragraphs 64 to 69). 
INTRODUCTION 
Background 
1. The financial importance of rural development within the EU budget is significant. The EU contribution for the 2000 to 2006 programming period is more than 60 billion euro. The budget for the 2007 to 2013 programming period proposes to increase this to almost 70 billion euro. To this should be added several billion euro coming from %quot%modulation%quot%, the transfer of amounts from direct farm subsidies to rural development [1]. 
2. Rural areas cover a large part of the EU's territory and its population. In comparison to urban areas, on average in rural areas the GDP per head is around one third lower, population density around 10 times lower and employment in the agricultural sector around 10 times higher. Rural areas are generally more remote and have less infrastructure and basic services and face significant challenges such as depopulation and a scarcity of economic opportunities. 
3. This Special Report presents observations on the following measures of the Rural Development Regulation [2]: %quot%investment in agricultural holdings%quot%, %quot%improving the processing and marketing of agricultural products%quot% and %quot%promoting the adaptation and development of rural areas%quot%. They cover around 40 % of the available budget. Under these measures a wide range of projects can be financed which, for the purpose of this audit, are labelled rural development investments. Other important rural development measures such as agri-environment, LFA, and forestry which also aim to address problems of rural areas have been covered in previous reports [3]. 
Description of the rural development investments 
The legal basis 
4. Before the year 2000, the investment measures were part of the Structural Funds and their objectives and conditions were defined by specific regulations. Investment in agricultural holdings and improving the processing and marketing of agricultural products were to support the agricultural sector across the EU, while the measures for promoting the adaptation and development of rural areas were to address specific problems of those areas. 
5. Starting from the year 2000, Rural Development became the %quot%second pillar of the CAP%quot% [4]. This was done by combining the investment measures with a wide range of other measures in a single regulation. While keeping the Structural Fund objectives, the CAP objectives were integrated in the policy. Few conditions were set and, from then on, all measures were implemented across the EU. This has resulted in a decentralised policy giving Member States a wide range of options to finance national or regional priorities. 
The objectives 
6. At a global level, the Regulation sets two objectives. The first relates to the agricultural sector, and can be summarised as improving agricultural competitiveness and sustainable land management. The second concerns the structural adjustments of regions that are lagging behind or facing other structural problems. Table 1 sets out full details of these objectives. 
Table 1 
Objectives provided by the Rural Development Regulation for the RD investment measures 
GLOBAL OBJECTIVES FOR ALL RD MEASURES [5] 
Rural development measures shall: accompany and complement other instruments of the common agricultural policy and thus contribute to the achievement of the following objectives:(a)to increase agricultural productivity by promoting technical progress and by ensuring the rational development of agricultural production and the optimum utilisation of the factors of production, in particular labour;(b)thus to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, in particular by increasing the individual earnings of persons engaged in agriculture;(c)to stabilise markets;(d)to assure the availability of supplies;(e)to ensure that supplies reach consumers at reasonable prices.be integrated into the measures promoting the development and structural adjustment of regions whose development is lagging behind, and accompany the measures supporting the economic and social conversion of areas facing structural difficulties in the regions concerned, taking into account the following specific target: in order to promote its overall harmonious development, the Community shall develop and pursue its actions leading to the strengthening of its economic and social cohesion. In particular, the Community shall aim at reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions or islands, including rural areas. | 
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES FOR RD INVESTMENT MEASURES [6] 
Investment in agricultural holdings | Improving the processing and marketing of agricultural products | Article 33 | 
1.To reduce production costs2.To improve and redeploy production3.To increase quality4.To preserve and improve the natural environment, hygiene conditions and animal welfare5.To promote diversification of farm activities | 1.To guide production in line with foreseeable market trends or encourage the development of new outlets for agricultural products2.To improve or rationalise marketing channels or processing procedures3.To improve the presentation and preparation of products or encourage the better use or elimination of by-products or waste4.To apply new technologies5.To favour innovative investments6.To improve and monitor quality7.To improve and monitor health conditions8.To protect the environment | No specific objectives provided | 
7. The Regulation also provides specific objectives for two of the investment measures, which are also set out in Table 1. Investments in agricultural holdings contribute to the improvement of agricultural incomes and to the improvement of living, working and production conditions. Investments for improving the processing and marketing of agricultural products contribute to increasing competitiveness and adding value to products. 
8. Investments for promoting the adaptation and development of rural areas are commonly known after its number in the Regulation: %quot%Article 33%quot%. The article defines that support shall be granted for measures, relating to farming activities and their conversion and to rural activities, which do not fall within the scope of other measures. It then provides a list of indents (which are in this report also referred to as measures) for which no details and no specific objectives are provided. Consequently, a wide range of projects can be supported under this measure. 
The implementation 
9. The Commission and Member States share the management and implementation of rural development investment measures. In practice, this means that the Member States define the strategy and the eligibility conditions in their programmes, approve and check projects, pay beneficiaries and report to the Commission. The Commission is responsible for ensuring that the programmes, their implementation and reporting comply with the legal requirements. 
10. Potential beneficiaries (farmers, processing and marketing companies, local authorities) present an application to the implementing body in the Member State concerned. If the project fulfils the requirements (eligibility conditions, available budget and sometimes ranking and selection criteria), it is approved and the beneficiary can implement the project. Upon project completion, the beneficiary requests reimbursement from the Member State paying agency. Periodically, the paying agency asks the Commission to reimburse the expenditure incurred. 
Audit scope and approach 
Audit questions 
11. The Court decided to carry out a performance audit focusing on effectiveness, with as its scope the 2000 to 2006 programming period. The principle of effectiveness is concerned with attaining the objectives set and achieving the intended results. 
12. Planning, implementation, the outcomes achieved and the monitoring and evaluation were identified as key elements. Figure 1 gives an overview of these elements and their relationships: 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
13. The objective of the audit was to conclude on the extent to which rural development investment measures are effective in addressing problems of rural areas. This was approached by addressing the following questions, based on the four key elements above: 
(a) Does the EU have a clear strategy and a coherent approach to rural development policy, and are they adequately defined in Member State programmes? 
(b) Are those projects selected for EU financing based on criteria which best address the needs of rural areas? 
(c) Have the projects been implemented in rural areas and have they had an impact? 
(d) Are the outputs, results and impacts properly monitored and evaluated? 
Audit approach 
14. The audit was carried out in the period January to December 2005 and involved gathering audit evidence from: 
(a) an analysis of the legal basis, policy papers, studies, programming documents and of monitoring and evaluation reports; 
(b) examination of a random sample of 300 EAGGF projects for the programming period 2000 to 2006, with the main aim of obtaining a representative view of the location of the investments and the socio-economic problems of the area concerned; 
(c) nine audit visits to the Member States which were amongst those with the most payments in the sample of 300. A total of 31 projects were audited, concentrating on the financially most important measures. A list of these projects and the measures concerned is contained in Annex I. The 31 projects were selected on a judgemental basis, in order to include projects in areas with different types of rurality. The aim was also to identify examples of good practice. 
15. The following Member States and regions were selected for on the spot visits on the basis of their size in the random sample. Outside Objective 1 regions [7]: France (national RDP), Germany (Niedersachsen), Italy (Emilia Romagna), the Netherlands (national RDP) and Spain (Catalonia). In Objective 1 regions: Germany (Brandenburg), Italy (Campania), Portugal (Lisboa Vale do Tejo) and Spain (National OP). The visits took place in the period June to October 2005. 
OBSERVATIONS 
Audit question 1: Does the EU have a clear strategy and a coherent approach to rural development policy, and are they adequately defined in Member State programmes? 
Clarity of the strategy 
Observation 1 
The flexibility of the Regulation (broad objectives, lack of priorities) and the lack of a clear strategy in the Member State programmes have led to a situation where it is unclear to which objective the funds have contributed. 
16. The Rural Development Regulation aims, on the one hand, to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the CAP and, on the other hand, to contribute to economic and social cohesion (see paragraph 6). In order to reach those objectives, the Regulation defines a series of measures. For some of them, specific objectives are set out, while for others none are provided (see Table 1). These measures are a mix of support for agricultural competitiveness improvements, environmental improvements and support for rural areas. The Regulation does not set out which measure should contribute to which objective, nor in which proportion the objectives should be obtained. 
17. The Regulation defines the investment measures in a flexible manner, as few conditions are required to get the support. In addition, the measures can contribute to any of the global objectives. 
18. For the nine Member State programmes reviewed, the Court found that a clear strategy was lacking. Some programmes do not set out clearly what objectives are pursued and in which proportion a measure shall address them. Other programmes set out objectives but implement measures which achieve different objectives. This makes policy decisions non-transparent: it is not clear how much money is used for which purpose. Text box 1 provides examples of this situation. 
Text box 1 
Same measure for different objectives 
One of the measures in the Spanish programme for improving agricultural structures in Objective 1 areas is investment in agricultural holdings. The objective set out in the programme is to increase agricultural incomes, and to improving living, working and production conditions. However, the audit found that the actual objectives achieved differed depending on the location of the investment. In areas of productive agriculture, this measure contributes to the objective of agricultural competitiveness improvement. However, in mountain areas the measure offers support to small and non-competitive farms with the objective to stabilise the rural population. The programme does not allocate specific resources to these different objectives. There are no specific targets for the two different objectives addressed by this measure; and there is no monitoring of how much money is spent on each of the different objectives or in each of the different type of areas. 
The measure water resources management and reparcelling accounts for 70 % of the EAGGF contribution to the Portuguese programme for %quot%Lisboa e Vale do Tejo%quot%. The objective set out in the programme is %quot%to develop a modern and competitive agriculture as key element for the development of rural areas%quot%. However the audit found that the measure supports the modernisation of irrigation networks in fertile areas as well as new irrigation networks completed by reparcelling and infrastructure in areas of poor farming structure (very small parcels, obsolete irrigation systems). The measure has two different objectives: to increase the competitiveness of highly productive areas; and to boost the farming activities in rural areas threatened by abandonment. The programme does not establish in which proportion the measure shall address one or the other objective. A single project located in a densely populated area has absorbed 29 % of the whole EAGGF contribution to the programme. 
Unclear objectives 
Reparcelling is generally considered as the rearrangement of parcels to improve farm structures and thus the economic viability of holdings. Under the Dutch RDP, this Article 33 indent is the financially most important measure. The lack of a detailed description in the Rural Development Regulation enables the Netherlands to use this indent as a means for the State to buy land for the purpose of nature development. The Commission approved RDP shows that from the amount allocated to this indent, 87 million euro should contribute to the objective of sustainable agriculture and 16 million euro to the objective of nature and landscape. However, the Court’s audit showed that in reality 86 % of the funds had as main objective nature development and only 14 % for sustainable agriculture. The flexibilty of the Regulation allows this situation. The consequence is a policy where it is unknown to which objective the funds have contributed. 
A coherent approach for rural development 
Observation 2 
Member States’ programmes focus largely on the agricultural sector and do not sufficiently take into account the characteristics of the geographical area supported. 
19. At the level of Member States, two needs are recognised through the general objectives defined by Articles 33, 158 and 160 of the Treaty. Firstly, there is a need to address structural weaknesses, reduce income inequalities between rural and urban areas, to reduce rural unemployment, improve the competitiveness of the primary sector and promote wider economic opportunities in rural areas. Secondly, because of threats to the viability and vibrancy of many rural communities, caused by a scarcity of economic opportunities, there is a need to maintain the viability of rural communities, support new activities and facilitate the provision of rural services. Additionally, Member States are facing a wider range of challenges such as an increased awareness about product quality, animal welfare, environmental concerns. 
20. In order to address these wide-ranging needs, various concepts of territorial approaches for rural areas have been developed. They are focused on a geographical area, based on a socio-economic analysis and a strategy that articulates the different aspects of rural development in explicit relation to other interventions in the area. In addition, they have an integrated approach: multi-sectoral with involvement of all actors and resources in the area concerned. This maximises the synergies within one programme as well as between different programmes applied in the zone. 
21. Independent evaluations on rural development, launched by the Commission, recommend a territorial approach [8]. The Commission concludes in its third report on Economic and Social Cohesion that many problems of rural areas are territorial in character [9]. 
22. The two European conferences on rural development, in Cork (1996) and in Salzburg (2003), confirmed the relevance of a territorial approach. In Cork it was underlined that %quot%Rural development policy must be multi-disciplinary in concept, and multi-sectoral in application, with a clear territorial dimension%quot% [10]. In Salzburg it was considered that %quot%Rural development policy must serve the needs of broader society in rural areas and contribute to cohesion%quot% [11]. 
23. In addition, there is a large number of studies available on the territorial approach for rural development, which also recommend this approach. Well known institutes and researchers, including OECD and ESPON, conclude in their studies that a sectoral approach is less effective than a territorial one. 
24. The other approach is the traditional agricultural-centred or %quot%sectoral%quot% one, focusing on only one sector and not taking account of the characteristics of the geographical area supported. The Court found that the Member State programmes predominantly have this latter approach. Key elements of the programme, such as the specific objectives, the SWOT analysis, the description of the situation and the measures are all focused on the agricultural sector. The programmes did not enable effective spatial targeting because the necessary elements were either lacking or incomplete [12]. 
25. The Commission recognises the need to boost innovation and diversification outside traditional agri-businesses [13]. However, an analysis by the Court of rural development expenditure for the current programming period shows that almost 90 % of rural development expenditure is paid to the agricultural sector. 
26. This strong focus on agriculture puts at risk the achievement of one of the global objectives of the Regulation, reducing territorial imbalances. An appropriate mix of territorial and sectoral approaches would mitigate this risk. A successful case of integration of sectoral and territorial approaches was found in Campania (Text box 2). This shows that it is possible to apply a territorial approach with the EU's rural development policy. 
Text box 2 
Elements of a partial territorial approach in Italy's programme for Campania 
The Campania programme includes the following elements of a territorial approach: 
- appropriate description and diagnosis of the territory. The programme distinguishes two large zones with different problems: areas with intensive agriculture and %quot%rural areas%quot%. The latter are defined using different criteria, and have an average population density of 127 inhabitants/km2, compared with 1239 inhabitants/km2 outside these areas, and an agricultural employment rate of 22 %, compared with 6 % in the rest of the region, 
- the measures which apply an approach by agricultural product sector aim at supporting economically viable agricultural holdings and processing firms. They represent 23 % of the EAGGF contribution. Priority is given to investments in areas which are particularly suited for the production of the agricultural product concerned. Additional priority is given to mountain areas, 
- four Article 33 measures addressing the lack of basic services and promoting new activities, representing 24 % of the EAGGF monies, are only implemented in rural areas, 
- priority is given to projects located in rural areas, thus addressing the needs of those areas, and creating synergies with other investments in the area. 
27. The new Rural Development Regulation, which will be in force from 2007, continues to allow Member States to adopt a predominantly sectoral approach, with a primary focus on the agricultural sector. There is no territorial objective aimed at a more balanced development by reducing disparities and avoiding territorial imbalances at EU, Member State or regional level. 
28. Only %quot%Leader%quot%, which has been included under the new Regulation, has a territorial approach, while also certain measures have some elements of this approach because of their multi-sectoral nature. However the funds available are limited (the minimum Community percentage for Leader is 5 % for EU-15 and 2,5 % for the new Member States; the rate for the multi-sectoral measures is 10 %). The Commission's more ambitious proposals were reduced (for the multi-sectoral measures from 15 % to 10 %) or rejected (in the case of a Leader reserve of 3 % of the RD budget). This shows that in practice there is a reluctance to shift from the sectoral to the territorial approach. 
Audit question 2: Are those projects selected for EU financing based on criteria which best address the needs of rural areas? 
Conditions and selection procedures 
Observation 3 
There is a lack of effective eligibility conditions and selection procedures to target funds on the most needy geographical areas and beneficiaries. 
29. Both the consolidated Treaty and the Rural Development Regulation use the term %quot%rural areas%quot%. Article 33 is entitled %quot%promoting the adaptation and development of rural areas%quot%. However the Regulation does not define this, nor requires Members States to set out conditions which rural areas should fulfil (e.g. in their rural development programmes). The Court found for the Member State programmes audited that three did not contain a definition of rural areas, that five had a definition which was not applied, and that only one programme (Campania) actually applied its definition of rural areas. 
30. The Regulation also does not require that Member States should tailor the measures to the needs of rural areas in their programmes. This could be done by identifying the areas with the highest needs, and then to allocate funds to rural areas according to the degree of their needs (specific budgets, differentiating aid rates, limiting measures to certain areas, etc.). 
31. The Member States have generally not done so in their programmes. Almost all measures are applied in the whole of the programme's territory, without taking into account the varying degree of needs of rural areas. 
32. Even when a project fulfils the conditions, some projects are better at addressing the needs of rural areas than others. For instance, if one investment project creates more jobs in rural areas than another project, assuming all other matters are equal, the first project is preferable. In addition, available funds are limited. For reasons of effectiveness, funds should be prioritised according to needs. 
33. The Court’s audit found that Member States generally do not apply effective procedures for selecting those projects which best address the needs of rural areas. Several Member States award projects on the basis of the %quot%first-come, first-served%quot% principle. In other cases, Member States have set up ranking procedures, which were not applied or based partly on non relevant criteria. In only one out of the nine programmes reviewed were effective procedures applied. Text box 3 provides examples. 
Text box 3 
Examples of ineffective application of ranking and selection 
The following are examples of criteria which are not relevant in addressing the needs of rural areas: 
- In Catalonia, for the processing and marketing measure, points are awarded to the proposed projects depending on the length of time since the beneficiary received a grant. This criterion aims to spread the aid to a larger number of beneficiaries rather than to select projects which best address the needs of rural areas. In France, for the same measure none of the selection criteria refers to the location of the investment. 
- In Niedersachsen, only one of the five criteria used to select a village in the region's programme for %quot%village renewal%quot% takes into account the rurality of a village. One of these criteria is the commune's financial situation: it must have sufficient financing power to be able to carry out the actions speedily and effectively. This tailors the measure to communes in urban areas, rather than to rural ones because the latter are usually financially weaker. 
34. The audit also found that there is a risk that the better-informed, better-organised and richer beneficiaries have easier access to EU funds. For the investment measures, the projects financed are proposed by private persons and by municipalities which must co-finance part of the investment. Examples were found where aid is concentrated with the economically stronger beneficiaries and areas rather than the more rural areas. Text boxes 3 and 4 show cases where regional imbalances increased rather than decreased. 
Text box 4 
Concentration of aid with stronger private and public beneficiaries 
In Emilia Romagna, only agricultural holdings are supported which have a minimal revenue by annual work unit of around 10000 euro for LFA areas and around 15000 euro for non-LFA areas. 50 % of the farms have less than 5000 euro revenue. In general these are small farms. 12 % of the region's biggest farms (more than 20 ha) absorbed 41 % of the grants. 
The Article 33 indent %quot%agricultural water management%quot% is financially the most important measure in the Spanish programme for improving agricultural structures in Objective 1 region. Most of the funds of this measure (76 %) are used to modernise existing irrigation networks. Irrigated areas cover around 12 % of the total surface of Objective 1 regions, and are more densely populated and more competitive than non-irrigated areas. People have settled in such areas because irrigated areas are on average six times more productive than non-irrigated areas. This has led to a situation where the majority of the funds is concentrated in 12 % of the surface area in the most favourable position. Only a small percentage of the aid (around 20 %) was implemented in areas which were defined as depopulated (%lt% 38,5 inhabitants/km2). 
Deadweight 
Observation 4 
A lack of effective targeting also leads to a risk of increased deadweight effects, which reduce the effectiveness of the aid. 
35. Deadweight occurs when an investment would have happened also without the assistance. In such instances the effects, such as growth of the firm or jobs created, would have been realised anyway. Support for investments is most effective when the investment would not have been carried out, and the desired effects would otherwise not have been realised. However, a certain level of deadweight can be considered unavoidable, as beneficiaries must be ready to undertake investment projects. 
36. The Commission acknowledges that deadweight exists [14]. This was also confirmed by the Court’s audit, of which some of the examples found are included in Text box 5. High levels of deadweight are also reported by independent evaluations. 
Text box 5 
Examples of deadweight 
Two farmers were visited who received aid for projects under the measure investment in agricultural holdings in Emilia Romagna. Both farmers stated that, had the public support not been granted, they would have carried out the investments anyway. Moreover, both farmers had sufficient financial resources and chose to carry out additional investments (not EU co-financed) for amounts in one case five times bigger than the supported project, in the other case half of the supported project. 
In Catalonia, until 2005 priority criteria were not applied for the measure improving the processing and marketing of agricultural products, and all eligible applications were co-financed. Because the funds were insufficient to do so at the public co-financing rate foreseen in the RDP, the rate was reduced significantly to an average of 15 %. This increased the likelihood of deadweight — the beneficiaries had to finance 85 % themselves. For two of the three companies visited, the annual accounts for the years after completion of the EU co-financed project showed that the companies had made additional investments for amounts exceeding the EU co-financed investments. 
37. In order to reduce the risk of deadweight, better targeting is needed. In addition, little or no attention has been given by the Commission to identifying factors which can predict deadweight. For example, deadweight was generally found to be higher if the investments were made by larger firms but lower in the case of environmentally friendly investments. These factors could consequently be taken into account when targeting the assistance. 
38. There is a relationship between viability of the company and sustainability of the investment, on the one hand, and deadweight, on the other hand. However the Court considers that the Commission focused too much on sustainability while accepting too easily a high risk of deadweight. 
39. An illustration of this is the situation for investment in agricultural holdings in the Belgian region of Flanders, where almost half of the agricultural holdings are excluded because of the condition for economic viability. This condition was implemented by requiring an income per full-time worker of at least 21577 euro. The evaluators of the programme concluded that this excluded holdings which needed support and for which the deadweight effects were lower. 
Audit question 3: Have the projects been implemented in rural areas and have they had an impact? 
The location of projects 
Observation 5 
A significant part of the expenditure is implemented in areas which are not predominantly rural, to the detriment of the amounts available for such areas. 
40. The Commission has little information on the location of the results and impacts of RD Investments (see further paragraph 61). The Court drew a representative sample of 300 EAGGF projects, and classified their location in categories of rurality. This was done by using four of the best available independent benchmarks for which data exists to classify all areas of the EU's territory in urban and rural. The following benchmarks were used (more details are provided in Annex II): 
(a) whether or not the area was classified as rural in the previous programming period (1994 to 1999). In this period Article 33 measures outside Objective 1 areas were only implemented in certain areas, called %quot%Objective 5b%quot%, which had to fulfil certain criteria of rurality and had to be approved by the Commission; 
(b) the classification of the NUTS III area in the ESPON typology, developed as part of the ESPON programme which is jointly managed by the Commission and the Member States; 
(c) the relative rurality of the NUTS III area according to national definitions available for statistical purposes; 
(d) the classification of the NUTS III area in OECD typology, which is based on population density and which has been generally applied for international analysis since 1994. 
41. Table 2 provides the results of the analysis of how the 300 investments are classified for each of the benchmarks. It shows that for regions outside Objective 1, depending on the typology used, between 29 % (OECD) and 55 % (ex Objective 5b classification) of the expenditure is in non-rural areas. For Objective 1 regions between 9 % (OECD) and 22 % (national definition) of rural development support is located in non rural areas. 
Table 2 
Location of RD investments in a representative sample of 300 EAGGF projects 
Sample population | Ex-objective 5b | ESPON typology | National definition | OECD typology | 
No | Yes | Urban | Medium | Rural | Urban | Medium | Rural | Urban | Medium | Rural | 
Regions outside Objective 1 | 55 % | 45 % | 47 % | 29 % | 25 % | 44 % | 7 % | 49 % | 29 % | 38 % | 33 % | 
Objective 1 regions | n/a | n/a | 21 % | 53 % | 26 % | 22 % | 2 % | 76 % | 9 % | 43 % | 48 % | 
42. When compared to the previous programming period (1994 to 1999), rural development investment support for rural areas (ex Objective 5b) dropped by 50 % in absolute terms (around 1500 million euro), and by 70 % in relative terms [15], despite a significant increase in the RD budget. This illustrates that the lack of prioritisation of rural areas, allowed by the Regulation, has been to the detriment of the funds available for these areas. 
43. The population density was also analysed for the 300 projects. For each of the sample populations, the average population density of the area of investment is shown in Table 3 (LAU II is the %quot%lowest%quot% administrative level, such as communes, and NUTS III is the larger administrative area such as provinces). For all types of investment measures audited, both LAU II and NUTS III areas have on average a higher population density than the European average of 120 inhabitants per square km. The figures for Objective 1 regions should be compared with the average population density for Objective 1 areas, which is 81 inhabitants/km2. 
Table 3 
Average population density of the location of RD investments in a representative sample of 300 EAGGF projects 
Sample population | Population density of the location of the investment (inhabitants/km2) | 
LAU II | NUTS III | 
Regions outside Objective 1 | 259 | 242 | 
Objective 1 regions | 237 | 246 | 
44. The relevance of this analysis stems from the correlation between population density and economic performance. The higher the population density, the higher the GDP per head. The results of Table 3 mean that the RD investments are on average in LAU II and NUTS III areas which have a higher GDP per head than the EU average. 
45. A characteristic of the ESPON classification is that the areas defined as urban in its typology have the highest GDP, i.e. they are the richer areas. The results of the sample thus show that a significant part of the expenditure for the measures reviewed (47 % for regions outside Objective 1, 21 % for Objective 1 regions) is implemented in areas with the highest GDP, contrary to the objective of reducing territorial imbalances (see paragraph 6). 
46. The results are particularly noteworthy for Objective 1 regions, which are overall the poorer areas of the EU. The average population density of the location of the investment is very similar for regions in and outside Objective 1 (see Table 3). This indicates that the investments are concentrated in the richest parts of the Objective 1 regions. 
Results and impacts of the projects reviewed on the spot 
Observation 6 
It was not always possible to identify the effects of the projects, but when this could be done key factors which increased their effectiveness were synergy with other projects and being sited in rural areas. 
47. As part of the analysis of the 31 projects reviewed during the Member State visits, the audit addressed the question %quot%what were the project’s results and what were the key variables which have determined them?%quot%. The following photos provide an impression of four of the projects audited. Annex III provides a more detailed description of these projects, which illustrate the following points. The results presented below cannot be extrapolated because the sample was made on a judgemental basis and also aimed to include examples of good practice. 
Point 1: Effects (results and impacts) cannot always be identified 
48. For 10 projects reviewed, clear results and impacts were found. For another 15 projects [16], evidence for some effects was found, albeit not for all the intended effects. For the remaining six projects [17] little or no effects were found. This information was generally not collected by the Member States, which sometimes claimed that this is the responsibility of the evaluators. 
Point 2: Projects are more effective when synergy takes place 
49. For 20 projects reviewed synergy effects were found. This means that the projects were not implemented in isolation but were linked to others. This was normally because projects were part of a wider concept such as a local development strategy (e.g. for village development or tourism development). For the remaining 11 projects [18], synergy effects could not be established. The Court found that isolated projects, which had no link with other projects, had less impact and were less effective. 
50. Member States do not always require that projects are part of a wider concept or local development plan. In those cases, in particular for Article 33 measures, effective targeting would increase the effectiveness of the assistance. 
Point 3: Location and impact in rural areas 
51. For all projects reviewed, the main effects were realised in close vicinity of the investment. Only seven projects [19] also had an impact in a wider area. 
52. For 19 projects reviewed, the results and impacts contributed positively to the development of rural areas. However, for the remaining 12 projects, the Court did not find such a positive contribution: for six cases little or no effects were found (see paragraph 48) and another six cases [20] were in a town or non-rural area. This has a significantly lesser impact on rural development and is thus not effectively addressing the problems of rural areas. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Photo 1 Project No 15, construction of a viewing tower in Brandenburg | Photo 2 Project No 11, purchase of agricultural land by the State in the Netherlands | 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Photo 3 Project No 19, upgrading of the village centre of Kirchwahlingen in Niedersachsen | Photo 4 Project No 22, modernisation of old concrete aqueducts by a system of underground pipes and pumps in Spain | 
Audit question 4: Are the outputs, results and impacts properly monitored and evaluated? 
The overall framework and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system 
Observation 7 
Implementation by the Commission and the Member States of the monitoring and evaluation system does not provide adequate and reliable information about the outputs, results and impacts of RD investments. 
53. The design of the monitoring and evaluation system is set out in the legal basis, including for instance the inclusion in the RDPs of operational objectives and expected impacts, quantified where possible in terms of monitoring and evaluation estimates. 
54. For monitoring, the legal basis requires Member States to submit annual progress reports to the Commission, which include progress of measures in relation to their objectives. For this, as far as possible, the common indicators defined in the guidelines drawn up by the Commission should be used. On the basis of the common indicators reported by the Member States, the Commission prepares periodically a synthesis report. 
55. Three types of evaluations are performed: ex-ante (at programme planning stage), mid-term (not later than 31 December 2003 and where necessary updated two years later) and ex post (by 31 December 2008). The Commission has also contracted evaluators to prepare summary reports concerning the information included in Member States’ ex post evaluations for the previous programming period (which were available in 2003) and the mid-term evaluations of the present period. 
56. When taking into account that the Commission has addressed some of the present shortcomings with the changes proposed for the new programming period the Court finds that the overall framework of the monitoring and evaluation system is generally adequate. 
57. The Court analysed how the monitoring and evaluation system was implemented by the Commission and the Member States. The Court found that neither the Commission nor the Member States adequately monitor and evaluate the outputs, results and impacts of RD investments. This means that they do not have sufficient information to effectively manage the investment measures. 
58. The following weaknesses were found: 
(a) objectives at project and measure level, indicators and targets were generally found to be inadequately defined in the Member State programmes; 
(b) even when indicators were adequately defined, several Member States did not collect and report data on project results, even though this would have been possible; 
(c) when data was reported, in many cases the output, result and impact indicators were not reliable. EU achievements were overstated due to the inclusion of national co-financing and double reporting of the results. In addition, data was based on planned figures or estimates and generally not checked in reality by the national administrations; 
(d) the Commission has requested that the data is based on commitments and not on payments, there is thus no direct link with the amounts paid and consequently the financial reporting. It also means that figures are not those actually realised and that outputs and results are reported too early or overstated (e.g. when projects are cancelled); 
(e) concerning Article 33, because of the wide variety of different type of projects, the Commission did not provide for relevant common output indicators. It is not reported what is actually financed. 
59. These weaknesses consequently affect the Member State's annual progress reports, in which the data is reported. The common indicators of these reports form the basis for the Commission's %quot%EU rural development monitoring data — synthesis reports%quot%, a report requested by the Agricultural Council. The last report, relating to the years 2001 to 2003, was prepared in May 2005, focuses on financial implementation, and provides little monitoring data on outputs and results. The report is not complete, as data for Objective 1 regions was not available. It cannot be compared with the year 2000 because the Commission changed the indicators in 2001, and updated figures for the year 2000 are only partly available. 
60. The weaknesses (see paragraph 58) also affect the evaluation reports. An additional problem relating to the evaluations is the limited relevance of the %quot%common evaluation questions%quot%. These are a series of evaluation questions, criteria and indicators developed by the Commission and required by the legal basis. The Court’s audit found that the majority of the questions are not answered by the evaluators because most of the questions, criteria and indicators are not pertinent, and when they are, that data is not reported or cannot be quantified. 
61. Monitoring and evaluation provides only limited information on where outputs, results and impacts are realised. Such information is necessary to analyse that the problems are addressed in those rural areas where the needs are highest. As such it is the logical completion of targeting and enables to measure the effectiveness of the support. 
62. For a number of years the Commission's approach to sound financial management has been through the Activity-Based Management procedures. This provides, at a global level, indicators on output and impact of rural development. These indicators, however, do not provide any insight in what was financed and what was achieved. The output indicators describe the expected activities of the Commission and the only relevant impact indicator for the investment measures is rural development expenditure as share of total EAGGF expenditure. 
63. The way in which the monitoring and evaluation system is implemented has led to a situation that reporting does not provide a reliable picture of the outputs, results and impacts of the RD investments. It is not apparent what was financed (outputs), what was achieved (results, impacts) and how this contributed to addressing the problems of rural areas. 
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
64. The Court found that key information to answer the question of whether rural development investment measures effectively address the problems of rural areas was lacking. Thus it could not be assessed what funds had contributed to achieve which objective. The non-availability of this information is partly due to the Rural Development Regulation which offers a wide range of measures aiming at broad objectives. Furthermore the Member State programmes did not set out clear strategies in order to address problems of rural areas (see paragraphs 16 to 18). 
- The Commission should for the next programming period ensure that when it adopts the rural development programmes Member States have identified clear strategies which relate to specific objectives and which will allow the assessment of the cost effectiveness relationship of the investments. 
65. Member States’ programmes implementing rural development measures focus support to a large extent on the agricultural sector and thus remain close to one of the global objectives of the Regulation: contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the CAP. This strong focus on agriculture puts at risk achievement of the other global objective of the Regulation: contributing to economic and social cohesion of rural areas which would be best served by a territorial approach as applied in other Structural Funds (see paragraphs 19 to 26). 
- When designing the arrangements for the programming period 2007 to 2013, appropriate attention should be given to the balance between the two core objectives of the Regulation: that relating to the CAP and that aiming to reduce territorial imbalances. 
66. The Regulation does not give a definition of rural areas, nor stipulates conditions which they should fulfil. Member States are not required to set out rural areas in their rural development programmes. There is a lack of effective conditions and selection procedures to target funds on the most needy geographical areas and beneficiaries (see paragraphs 29 to 34). 
- The Commission should ensure that, for reasons of effectiveness, Member States’ programmes prioritise allocation of funds according to their needs. Such prioritisation would benefit from a clearer identification of the most needy areas and beneficiaries. 
67. The Commission has little information on the location of the results and impacts of the investments. The Court identified that a significant part of the expenditure is implemented in areas which are not predominantly rural and that, when compared to the previous programming period, investment support for rural areas decreased significantly (see paragraphs 40 to 46). 
- When approving the rural development programmes the Commission should make sure that Member States have clearly justified in which areas investments are most needed. 
68. Regarding the results and impacts of the projects reviewed on the spot it was found that establishing the effect is difficult but that factors which influenced positively the effectiveness were synergy with other projects and being located in rural areas (see paragraphs 47 to 53). 
- The Commission should encourage Member States to analyse key factors influencing succes of investment projects and disseminate cases of good practice. 
69. The system for monitoring and evaluation does not provide the Commission and the Member States with sufficient and reliable information on outputs, results and impacts (see paragraphs 53 to 63). 
- The Commission should improve data collection and reporting in order to be better informed on the effectiveness of the investments. 
This report was adopted in Luxembourg at its meeting of 28 June 2006. 
For the Court of Auditors 
Hubert Weber 
President 
[1] Council Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 of 29 September 2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers (OJ L 270, 21.10.2003, p. 1). Article 10. 
[2] Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 of 17 May 1999 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) and amending and repealing certain Regulations (OJ L 160, 26.6.1999, p. 80). 
[3] Special Report No 3/2005 (OJ C 279, 11.11.2005), Special Report No 4/2003 (OJ C 151, 27.6.2003), Special Report No 9/2004 (OJ C 67, 18.3.2005). 
[4] The first pillar of the CAP consists of support to be granted to farmers in the form of direct payments. 
[5] Article 1 of Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999. 
[6] Articles 4, 25 and 33 of Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999. 
[7] NUTS II regions whose development is lagging behind, which is defined as a per capita GDP of less than 75 % of the Community average. 
[8] Ex-post evaluation of Objective 5b programmes 1994 to 1999, August 2003; Synthesis report of the Mid-Term Evaluations 2000 to 2006, February 2006. 
[9] A new partnership for cohesion, Third report on Economic and Social Cohesion, February 2004, p. 29. 
[10] Conclusions of the European Conference on rural development in Cork, 7 to 9 November 1996. 
[11] Conclusions of the second European Conference on rural development in Salzburg, 12 to 14 November 2003. 
[12] For instance, if a diagnosis of the problems of different parts of the territory is included, this is at a general level, without identifying which concrete rural area has which problem. Moreover, the description of the problems/needs is not used for adapting the RD measures to the needs of different areas. 
[13] Commission Newsletter %quot%Putting rural development to work for jobs and growth%quot%, 2005. 
[14] DG AGRI factsheet %quot%New perspectives for EU Rural Development%quot%, p. 7. 
[15] Source: Court analysis of Commission accounting data. 
[16] Projects 1 to 5, 7 to 9, 16, 18, 19, 22, 23, 30 and 31 (see Annex I). 
[17] Projects 12, 15, 17, 20, 26 and 27 (see Annex I). 
[18] Projects 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 12, 17, 20 and 31 (see Annex I). 
[19] Projects 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 (see Annex I). 
[20] Projects 7, 8, 11, 18, 24 and 25 (see Annex I). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX I 
LIST OF PROJECTS AUDITED IN THE MEMBER STATES 
Ref. | Member State and Programme | Measure — Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 | Short project description | 
Investment in agricultural holdings | Improving processing and marketing of agricultural products | Article 33 measures | 
Reparcelling | Renovation and development of villages and protection and conservation of the rural heritage | Agricultural water management | Development and improvement of infrastructure connected with the development of agriculture | 
1 | Italy — Emilia Romagna | × | | | | | | Purchase of farm machines, aiming at cost reduction | 
2 | Italy — Emilia Romagna | × | | | | | | Construction of farm buildings to store machines, aiming at cost reduction | 
3 | Spain — National OP | × | | | | | | Supporting an investment (grant, interest rate and loan subsidy) at a small family farm with around 15 cows | 
4 | Spain — National OP | × | | | | | | Supporting an investment (grant and interest rate subsidy) at a relatively large size milk cooperative (186 cows, milk quota 1,2 million kg) | 
5 | France — National RDP | | × | | | | | Investments to improve quality control in a wine production cooperative | 
6 | France — National RDP | | × | | | | | Investments to improve and control hygienic conditions in a slaughterhouse | 
7 | Spain — Catalonia | | × | | | | | Improving sanitary conditions and saving energy through adjusting production process in a private company | 
8 | Spain — Catalonia | | × | | | | | Building a new plant and improving sanitary conditions through adjusting production process in a private company | 
9 | Spain — Catalonia | | × | | | | | Building a new plant and improving sanitary conditions through adjusting production process in an association of producers | 
10 | Netherlands — National RDP | | | × | | | | Purchase of 28,6 hectares of agricultural land in a nature reserve area from a farmer | 
11 | Netherlands — National RDP | | | × | | | | Purchase of 125,6 hectares of land in a nature reserve area, mostly used as agricultural land, from the municipality of Zaanstad | 
12 | Italy — Campania | | | | × | | | Renovating an existing building in an isolated farm with the commitment to use it as a bed-and-breakfast facility | 
13 | Italy — Campania | | | | × | | | Renovating an open space (street and square) of a commune in order to use it as social area | 
14 | Germany — Brandenburg | | | | × | | | Renovating of a castle for museum purposes | 
15 | Germany — Brandenburg | | | | × | | | Building of a 31,5-meter-high steel tower giving a panoramic view over a lake and surrounding area | 
16 | Germany — Brandenburg | | | | × | | | Rebuilding of two bridges and the upgrading of a 1,1-km-long rural road | 
17 | Germany — Niedersachsen | | | | × | | | Converting an old traditional building into a social and meeting place | 
18 | Germany — Niedersachsen | | | | × | | | Restoring fencing and gables of an old farmhouse | 
19 | Germany — Niedersachsen | | | | × | | | Building a car park, resurfacing a road, creating a turning place for agricultural supply lorries repairing typical fences and establishing benches for leisure | 
20 | Spain — Catalonia | | | | × | | | Renewal of a meeting room in a rural commune | 
21 | Germany — Brandenburg | | | | | × | | Improving of the dykes along the river Oder and providing water from the river to irrigation | 
22 | Spain — National RDP | | | | | × | | Improving and modernising an irrigation network for an irrigation society | 
23 | Spain — National RDP | | | | | × | | Improving an area for an irrigation society in an integrated project (irrigation, drainage, roads, etc.) | 
24 | Spain — National RDP | | | | | × | | Irrigation in an agricultural area immediately next to the town of Castellón de la Plana | 
25 | Spain — National RDP | | | | | × | | Irrigation of agricultural land next to the town of Sagunto | 
26 | Portugal — Lisboa e Vale do Tojo | | | | | × | | Constructing a new irrigation system in the area of two villages in a rural community of Tomar | 
27 | Portugal — Lisboa e Vale do Tojo | | | | | × | | Constructing a new irrigation system in an area 25 km from Lisbon | 
28 | Italy — Campania | | | | | | × | Renovating existing rural roads, improving the accessibility to the surrounding farms, improving the communication between different parts of the commune and the access to the main roads | 
29 | Italy — Campania | | | | | | × | Renovating existing rural roads, improving the accessibility to the surrounding farms, improving the communication between different parts of the commune and the access to the main roads | 
30 | Germany — Niedersachsen | | | | | | × | Creating a new rural road of 410 meters | 
31 | Germany — Niedersachsen | | | | | | × | Upgrading of 1,4 km of rural road | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX II 
DEFINITIONS OF RURAL AREAS — BENCHMARKS USED FOR THE AUDIT 
1. Ex-Objective 5b areas 
With the date of effect of the Rural Development Regulation, 1 January 2000, Regulation (EEC) No 2052/88 [1] was repealed. The latter defines in Article 1(5) Objective 5b as %quot%promoting the development of rural areas%quot%. Further on, Article 11 stipulates that areas eligible under Objective 5b shall be selected (…) taking into account in particular the degree to which they are rural in nature, the number of persons occupied in agriculture, their level of economic and agricultural development, the extent to which they are peripheral and their sensitivity to changes in the agricultural sector, especially in the context of reform of the common agricultural policy. For the 1994 to 1999 programme period, the Commission approved 83 zones following these criteria. The area thus affected by the Objective 5b programmes covered 26 % of the EU's surface area and 9 % of its population. 
2. ESPON typology 
The focus of the final report of ESPON project 1.1.2 %quot%Urban-rural relations in Europe%quot% is on whether the urban-rural divide is sensible, how this should be done and what the criteria should be, and whether it can be used for policy making. The report elaborates a typology of regions in Europe according to urban-rural characteristics. The ESPON typology is based on two main dimensions, the degree of urban influence and the degree of human intervention. Urban influence is defined according to population density and status of the leading urban centre of each NUTS III area. The degree of human intervention was determined by the relative share of land cover according to the main land cover classes of the CORINE data set. The main classes are artificial surfaces, agricultural areas, and residual land cover. For the purpose of the audit, the first class (type one %quot%high urban influence, high human intervention%quot%) is considered as urban, classes two to five as medium and class six as rural. 
3. National definitions 
Because the variation of criteria applied by the Member State is very large, the different typologies as such defined are not comparable. However, as part of project 1.1.2, ESPON has harmonised the national classifications by defining three classes depending on the country average. The result is a typology of relative rurality according to national definitions in three classes: low rurality (index below 90 of the country average), medium rurality (index between 90 and 110) and high rurality (index above 110). 
4. OECD 
The OECD classification has three classes where NUTS III areas are labelled as urban if less than 15 % of its population live in LAU II areas with a population density below 150 inhabitants/km2. A NUTS III area is relatively rural if 15 to 50 % of its population live in LAU II areas with a population density below 150 inhabitants/km2, while it is rural if it is more than 50 %. 
[1] Council Regulation (EEC) No 2052/88 of 24 June 1988 on the tasks of the Structural Funds (OJ L 185, 15.7.1988, p. 9). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX III 
EXAMPLES OF RESULTS AND IMPACTS OF PROJECTS REVIEWED 
Point 1 — Effects cannot always be identified 
In Brandenburg, under the Article 33 measure %quot%renovation and development of villages and protection and preservation of the rural heritage%quot%, a 31,5-meter-high steel viewing tower has been built, giving panoramic views over the Senftenberger See and surrounding area (see also Photo 1). The tower is an additional attraction for the area, but in the opinion of the auditors it is not an essential project. If it had not been constructed the number of visitors would probably have been essentially the same. There is no evidence that this project, costing around 380000 euro, develops the rural area effectively. The park authorities were able to provide statistics showing the number of overnight and day visitors. The construction of the tower had no discernible impact on these figures, and in any event any trend could be due to other factors. Thus the results and impact of the tower are very difficult to determine and quantify and it is early to assess the medium and long-term effects of the project. 
Point 2 — Projects are more effective when synergy takes place 
Example 1: Synergy with other instruments and objectives, part of a wider strategy 
The project concerned the purchase of agricultural land by the State under the Article 33 measure of reparcelling in the Netherlands (see also Photo 2). For this project, the parcels were purchased in the 1960s by the commune for building purposes, but now (with EU co-financing) bought by the State for nature development rather than for urbanisation. Other EU co-financed projects were also implemented in the area, which has resulted in achieving at the same time the two main objectives of the RDP: nature development and sustainable development of agriculture. In addition, the area in which the project was located offered possibilities for water recreation and an EU co-financed cycle path was under construction between the parcels purchased and the city of Zaanstad. The project also fitted in a wider strategy of national and provincial plans and detailed arrangement plans. This is in particular relevant for the objective of nature, for example for the protection of species, which requires a larger intervention than at individual project level. 
Example 2: Synergy with other projects and part of a wider strategy 
Under the Article 33 measure %quot%renovation and development of villages and protection and conservation of the rural heritage%quot%, the village centre of Kirchwahlingen (Germany) was upgraded (see also Photo 3). This involved creating a car park for church and other visitors, resurfacing the road to help drain rainwater and avoid flooding, creating a turning place for agricultural supply lorries, repairing typical fencing, and establishing benches for leisure. This has led to an appreciation in the value of the village which has been opened up for cultural events and tourism and even attracted people to return to live. The inclusion of this project in a wider village renewal plan ensured that a range of appropriate local people have had an input into the planning procedure, including prioritisation, and that the most needy projects have been selected for that village. The project was complemented by two other closely-related public projects and one private project which were also identified in the village renewal plan. Moreover, the project was part of a wider concept of the (in total) 15 village renewal plans of the three local joint-communitoes (Samtgemeinde). The village concerned is in a rural area, where depopulation had been a problem and where infrastructure was relatively weak. The village was losing its identity. These facts reinforced the impact of this project. 
Point 3 — Location in a non-rural areas 
One of the projects reviewed for the measure irrigation in Spain has a total investment of 9,9 million euro, co-financed by EAGGF for 2,4 million euro. The project concerns irrigation in an agricultural area immediately next to Castellón de la Plana. There are no small villages in or around the agricultural area and the farmers benefiting from the project live in Castellón. 
Through the middle of the irrigated agricultural area runs a highway which leads from the city to the port of Castellón, a distance of around 5 km. Between the agricultural area and the Mediterranean Sea is mainly built-up area. Castellón de la Plana has a population of around 147000 and a population density of 1346 inhabitants/km2. The town is one of the centres of Spanish citrus fruit production because the area is fertile. It is an important commercial centre, with a large petrochemical industry, ceramic tile manufacturing and fishing as main activities. 
Castellón de la Plana is one of the 29 Spanish cities which have benefited from the EU co-financed URBAN I Community initiative. The URBAN Community Initiative is an instrument within EU Cohesion Policy, dedicated to the regeneration of urban areas and neighbourhoods in crisis. 
The project involves the modernisation of an irrigation network in an area of 895 hectares, by changing the existing concrete aqueducts to a system with pumps and underground channels (see also Photo 4). Main results are a significant reduction in water use, making the agriculture in the area more efficient, improving the quantity and quality of the products and thus maintaining the existing part-time agriculture (consolidar la agricultura a tiempo parcial). 
The results of this project contribute to improving the competitiveness of agriculture and to the environment (water saving). However, these results are realised in an area which in several aspects are in the most competitive and best-situated parts of the Objective 1 areas of Spain. Castellón de la Plana, and the agricultural areas next to this town, are not characterised by problems which are typical for rural areas (depopulation, high employment in agriculture, etc.). Based on objective criteria, the areas cannot be considered as rural. The financing of such projects does not contribute to and does not promote the adaptation and development of rural areas. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
THE COMMISSION'S REPLIES 
II. The successful implementation of the investment measures should not solely be assessed against their impact on solving the problems of rural areas. Rural development deals with territorial cohesion but includes also other objectives like increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector, enhancing the environment and the countryside, and improving the wider rural economy both at Community and national/regional level (see reply to paragraphs 6 to 13). 
Therefore, to adequately tackle the problems of rural areas, several instruments need to be put in place. 
III. Specific %quot%measure-related%quot% objectives are included for each of the audited measures under the respective Chapters I, VII and IX of Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999. For the next programming period, the Commission has included a more strategic approach through the Community Strategic Guidelines allowing Member States to better focus their rural development strategies on relevant objectives deriving from specific needs. 
The strong focus on the agricultural sector is inherent to the rural development policy which has evolved from a policy dealing with the structural problems of the farm sector to a policy which addresses the multiple roles of farming in society and, in particular, challenges faced in a wider rural context. The tandem of sectoral and territorial elements is embedded in that policy being considered as the second pillar of the CAP (see reply to paragraphs 16 to 28). 
IV. Rural development is a horizontal policy which is applicable to all European areas. Following the principle of subsidiarity, the identification of beneficiaries and areas eligible for support and the formulation of appropriate strategies is the responsibility of the Member States (see reply to paragraphs 29 to 34). 
Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 for the next programming period includes a clearer targeting towards smaller enterprises in processing and marketing of agricultural products (and micro-enterprises for forestry products in axis 1 and for business development in axis 3) in order, inter alia, to limit deadweight effects (if and where they occur) as much as possible (see reply to paragraphs 35 to 39). 
V. The definition and identification of eligible areas as well as the location of the different measures is the responsibility of the Member States/regions on the basis of their analysis of problems, their objectives and the strategy that they have defined in their programmes. This is a core element in the context of subsidiarity. Furthermore, efficient spending of the investment measures can not only be brought down to the rural character of the area in which the intervention takes place (see reply to paragraphs 40 to 46). 
VI. The Commission acknowledges that integrated territorial approaches provide an important tool for implementing the rural development policy and has recommended this possibility in the new Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 by encouraging integrated projects which combine several measures and by mainstreaming the Community initiative Leader (see reply to paragraphs 48 to 51). 
The Commission has already undertaken serious efforts to remedy shortcomings in the quantity and quality of the monitoring data of Member States, for the current programming period. Monitoring will be strengthened with the introduction of a Common Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (CMEF) for the next programming period in cooperation with the Member States (see reply to paragraphs 55 to 63). 
VII. For the period 2007 to 2013, support will be better targeted through the introduction of the CMEF which has strong links to the national strategies. 
In addition, Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 concerning the next programming period takes a more strategic approach to rural development through the definition of three core objectives (improving competitiveness of farming and forestry, environment and countryside, improving quality of life and diversification of the rural economy) which are subsequently further broken down into sub-objectives specific to the different measures. 
6 to 13. The Commission welcomes the observations and conclusions presented by the Court in this report. Many of them are relevant in view of the implementation of the legal framework for the next programming period 2007 to 2013. 
Rural development policy consists of a set of nine groups of various sorts of measures. To address problems of rural areas, all groups of measures have to be taken into account in order to cover the wider scope of rural development objectives. 
The specific objectives defined in the three groups of RD investment measures focus more specifically on reducing production costs, improving production and quality, promoting diversification of farm activities etc. These goals are embedded in the wider rural development approach of increasing competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector, enhancing the environment and the countryside and improving the wider rural economy (see also reply to paragraphs 19 to 27). 
Observation 1 
The flexible design of the RD policy allows Member States/regions to define objectives and strategies fitted to their specific situation. The RDPs include information on the objectives set out for the programming period and provide a description of the measures used to achieve those objectives. 
16. Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 for the current programming period 2000 to 2006 managed for the first time to merge several pre-existing measures into a single legal framework evolving from a policy dealing with the structural problems of the farming sector to a policy which addresses the multiple roles of farming in society. 
This approach for more coherence between the individual measures is now further developed by Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 for the next programming period 2007 to 2013. It improves the internal structure by clearly defining the three major policy objectives which are subsequently further broken down into specific objectives at the level of the individual measures (see reply to paragraph 27). 
17. The flexibility of investment measures does not prevent Member States from building coherent development strategies: the regulation offers a toolkit with a large spectrum of measures so that Member States can choose those more relevant to their situation and needs. 
18. On the basis of the analysis of problems, Member States/regions define objectives and a strategy in their RDPs. Various measures can contribute to the realisation of these objectives. That is why it is sometimes difficult at the beginning of the programming period to predefine resource allocation to certain sub-objectives at regional level. 
Following the framework provided by the Council for the next period 2007 to 2013 a more strategic approach has been introduced through the Community Strategic Guidelines (CSG) adopted by the Council in February 2006 [1]. 
Member States shall prepare their national rural development strategies on the basis of six community strategic guidelines, which will help to: 
- identify the areas where the use of EU support for rural development creates the most value added at EU level, 
- make the link with the main EU priorities (Lisbon, Gothenburg); 
- ensure complementarity and coherence between actions financed by the structural, employment and rural development policies on a given territory and in a given field of activity; 
- accompany the implementation of the new market-orientated CAP and the necessary restructuring it will entail in the old and new Member States. 
Text box 1 — Spain 
Objectives pursued by the programme derive from the ex-ante evaluation at the level of the respective rural development plan. Where the territorial coverage of a single programme is composed of several regions, like the Spanish programme for improving structures, quoted in text box 1, the realisation of a general objective may be implemented in different ways, depending on farm structure and on the coherence of the measures proposed. 
Text box 1 — Portugal 
The two examples mentioned by the Court are in line with the objective of increasing incomes and of improving living, working and production conditions. In general, it is not because a certain degree of competitiveness has been achieved that no new investment should be done. 
In the Portuguese example, the measure %quot%water resources management and reparcelling%quot% (combination of two indents of Article 33) is only one of the instruments to achieve the global objective %quot%to develop a modern and competitive agriculture%quot%. The two aspects of irrigation and reparcelling are closely linked. In those areas where farms are fragmented into numerous small parcels, it is advisable to start reparcelling first and then develop the irrigation networks, once the farming structure has improved and stabilised. In other parts of Portugal where the farm structure is better, the main factor of development is water management. It is not always feasible to allocate the funds to sub-objectives at the beginning of the programming period, and that is the reason why the two indents have been combined into one single measure in the programme. Concerning the reference to one big project the key element to consider is whether the project contributes to the objectives of the programme. 
Furthermore, a measure can contribute to more than one sub-objective of the programme, all related to the global objective of developing a modern and competitive agriculture. However, in the next period, the Member States will have to establish a separate national strategy, defining priorities which then will be further translated into the rural development programmes. 
Text box 1 — Netherlands 
In the Netherlands, the measure of reparcelling is related to different objectives. The purchase of land is done on a voluntary basis. It offers farmers the possibility to move the holding to another place where there is a greater potential for sustainable development. With this integrated approach both objectives of nature protection and agricultural development are realised. 
As priorities/objectives and their linked financial allocation evolve during the programming period (e.g. in function of the uptake of the measure by farmers), a retargeting of the measure is sometimes needed to ensure a successful implementation. 
Observation 2 
Agenda 2000 established rural development as the second pillar of the CAP. The majority of rural development measures are by definition targeted towards agriculture and farmers resulting in a high share of spending on the agricultural sector but also includes territorial elements like higher co-financing rates for investments in less favoured areas and in cohesion regions. 
20. The flexible design of RD policy in combination with its decentralised approach provides Member States the possibility to include a territorial approach in their rural development programmes. Regulation 1257/1999 states %quot%be as decentralised as possible and emphasis must be on participation and a %quot%bottom-up%quot% approach%quot% [2]. The integration of various policies put in place in a territory at regional/local level is carried out by the Member States. Additionally, rural development programmes (RDPs) require information on the complementarity of support with other Community instruments like cohesion policy. 
21. The Commission's reports on economic and social cohesion were drafted taking account of the need of all structural policies (including regional policy) being designed to contribute to enhancing territorial cohesion in rural areas. They therefore need to be seen as a whole with the rural development policy as the second pillar of the CAP having a clear contribution (see also reply to paragraph 24). 
22. The two European conferences on rural development mentioned by the Court need to be seen within the context of a new era where a need for a more comprehensive RD policy was felt which, besides agricultural restructuring, also addressed environmental concerns and the wider needs of rural areas. This is reflected in the current programming period and strengthened in the future period under Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005. 
24. Agenda 2000 established rural development as the second pillar of the CAP to face the multiple challenges of agriculture as the main land user. Therefore the policy is by nature strongly linked to the agricultural sector but promotes also the taking into account of territorial disparities. Additionally, for the period 2000 to 2006, rural development is also characterised by several territorial aspects like the implementation of the LFA-measure and higher co-financing rates for investments in less-favoured areas and in cohesion regions. A further spatial differentiation at programme level is the responsibility of the Member States. 
25 and 26. The majority of rural development measures is by definition targeted towards agriculture and farmers resulting in a high share of spending on agriculture. Since agriculture continues to be the largest user of rural land and still plays an important role in the economy of rural areas, support for the agricultural sector can contribute significantly to the development of rural areas. Rural development policy has a strong function in promoting sustainable methods of farming and preserving the rural environment and landscape. Furthermore, as shown in the case of Campania, a mainly sectoral-oriented policy does not exclude a territorial differentiation. 
For the next programming period, a minimum funding of 10 % of the total EU contribution has been withheld by the Council Regulation for measures concerning the quality of life and diversification of the rural economy outside agriculture and forestry. 
27. Following the framework established by the Council, RD should also in the future accompany and complement the market and income support policies of the CAP as a second pillar, taking into account the general objectives of economic and social cohesion. 
This is why the RD policy for 2007 to 2013 will focus on three areas in line with the %quot%three axes%quot% of measures laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005: Axis 1: %quot%improving competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector%quot%; Axis 2: %quot%improving the environment and the countryside%quot%; Axis 3: %quot%improving quality of life in rural areas and diversification of the rural economy%quot%. The fourth %quot%Leader%quot% axis introduces possibilities for locally based bottom-up approaches to rural development. 
However, to better accentuate the territorial dimension, Member States need to assess the designation of rural areas and their importance in the preparation of their RDPs. 
28. As outlined in paragraphs 24 to 26, the application of some sector-related measures does follow a territorial differentiation already in the current period 2000 to 2006. 
For the next programming period, several territorial elements have been included, like the implementation of the LFA-measure and a differentiation in co-financing rates according to the type of area (higher co-financing rates for certain measures implemented in LFA areas, like convergence regions, outermost regions, smaller Aegean islands). The mainstreaming of the Community initiative Leader under the other three axes will also facilitate this approach. 
It is true that the minimum Community contributions to the programme for axes 1 and 3 have been reduced by the Council to 10 %. These reductions were preferred by the Member States to leave them more flexibility to adapt programming to their particular needs. However, the programming rates are a minimum giving Member States the possibility to apply higher rates. The reduced percentage for Leader contributions in the new Member States has to be seen as a %quot%phasing in%quot% period, to gain experience in the lengthy process of implementing those measures. 
Observation 3 
The areas and beneficiaries eligible for intervention, as well as the selection of projects, are the responsibility of the Member States in function of the needs and objectives set out in their rural development programmes. 
29. Taken into account the variety of regions in Europe and the different situations at national level, it is difficult to provide a single definition of rural areas. 
Therefore, the definition of rural areas and the identification of areas eligible for intervention as well as the location of the projects within these rural areas is the responsibility of the Member States in function of their needs, objectives and the strategy defined in their programmes. This explains the differences among the RDPs for the current programming period of the audited Member States as regards the clear designation of the areas of implementation of the specific measures. 
As mentioned in paragraph 27, for the next programming period Member States need to include in their RDPs the designation of their rural areas and indicate their importance. 
30 and 31. Investment measures should be tailored to the needs of the areas eligible for intervention. In some Member States for example, the increasing (environmental) urban pressure on so-called %quot%peri-urban%quot% areas is forming an important spatial challenge to which rural development policy can contribute. So, depending on the aim of the measure, support can be more effective in areas under urban pressure than in remote peripheral areas. 
However, as outlined under paragraph 29, the situation differs in the different Member States. For a small country as the Netherlands for example — where the regional disparities are small — a national general approach could be more useful. In other Member States, thematic differentiations exist in order to promote areas with highest needs. 
32 and 33. Following the principle of subsidiarity, the selection and ranking of projects is also the responsibility of the Member States. 
However, the Commission has introduced a more strategic management based on priorities and objectives for the next programming period. 
Text box 3 — Spain 
The practice in Catalonia, described by the Court, of encouraging new applications by increasing the total number of different beneficiaries over time is an incentive to bring European benefits to more people. 
Text box 3 — Germany 
The quoted example of Niedersachsen is an exception in Germany, as the communes are in charge of co-financing. In other German Länder the Federal State (Bund) and/or the Land are responsible for it. 
34. In the current period one of the eligibility conditions for productive investments is economic viability of the holding in order to support projects with real economic perspectives. This is intended to help to increase efficiency of public support. For the next programming period, enterprises that are %quot%in difficulty%quot% will be excluded from support. 
However, it is inevitable that the better informed and organised potential beneficiary is best placed to benefit from a scheme. 
Text box 4 — Italy 
The quoted example for Emilia Romagna of a required minimal revenue recalls the criteria chosen by the region, on the basis of a methodology set up by the Member State, to fulfil the legal requirement of economic viability for agricultural holdings benefiting from EU co-financed investment support. The fact that only a part of the holdings operating in the region (approximately half of them) may be able to benefit from this support is based on considerations on the specific structure of agricultural farms, on the objective to be fulfilled, namely to support competitive farms, and on the responsibility for financial management of EU funds. 
Text box 4 — Spain 
As outlined above (paragraph 34), the Regulation requires that the investment in agricultural holdings that will receive EU funding must be economically viable. Pursuant to Article 33, subsidies may be granted for investments going beyond individual agricultural holdings. It is essential that the EU funding brings value added, and economic viability in the case of investment. This can be achieved by a targeting of the best projects, which explains the situation observed in Spain concerning the water management projects. 
Observation 4 
The Commission agrees that a lack of targeting increases the risk of deadweight and that a clear focus of the resources by the Member States contributes to the effectiveness of the RD programmes. 
35. The Commission agrees that deadweight is an important issue that should be considered at both the level of establishing the legal framework and when drawing up programmes. 
However, lessons learnt from previous evaluations show that the perceptions of deadweight have to be taken with caution. As impacts observed at the micro-level are a result of a multiplicity of intervening factors, it is difficult to establish the evidence of deadweight. 
36. In the factsheet on %quot%New perspectives for EU rural development%quot% mentioned by the Court, the Commission states: %quot%A lack of targeting increases the danger of deadweight, a focusing of resources may increase programme effectiveness%quot%. The latter is the responsibility of the Member States. 
The %quot%Synthesis of Rural Development Mid-Term Evaluations%quot%, which only became available after the finalisation of the Court’s report [3], concludes that no definitive judgement across the EU can be made on the evidence of deadweight since no systematic assessment of the issue has been made in the mid-term evaluations of the various RD programmes. 
Text box 5 — Italy 
In the updated mid-term evaluation of the Emilia Romagna RDP, the evaluator points to differences as regards this aspect, particularly in relation to the types of products, the size of holdings and the types of investment. Similar measures under the next programming period 2007 to 2013 will have to take account of these conclusions. 
37 and 38. The Commission agrees that deadweight is an important element which needs to be taken into account when drafting the legal framework. However, practise has shown that several elements can influence deadweight which makes it very difficult to provide a %quot%standardised%quot% solution. 
There will be a clear targeting of investment support in the next programming period according to the needs of enterprises. Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 (EAFRD regulation) targets smaller enterprises in processing and marketing of agricultural products (and micro-enterprises for forestry products in axis 1 and for business development in axis 3) in order, inter alia, to limit deadweight effects as much as possible. On the other hand, supported investments must improve the overall performance of the firm/holding (including environmental performance) (see also reply to paragraph 34). 
39. Granting investment support to farms that are too small and therefore do not reach a certain level of viability, raises the question of whether those farms have a chance of staying in business in the medium term and, therefore, raises doubts on the sustainability of the investment. 
In this specific case, Flanders included the requirement of an income per full-time worker of at least 21577 euro in its RDP based on the analysis of problems at regional level and the resulting objectives and priorities they wish to include in their programme. 
Observation 5 
The eligibility of support under investments in agricultural holdings and investment in food processing is not restricted to rural areas. The aim of the measures is respectively to contribute to the improvement of the agricultural income and of living, working and production conditions and to increase the competitiveness and added value of food processing, where these activities are present in the country (rural and non-rural areas). 
40. Evaluators do investigate where outputs, results and impacts are realised. In the monitoring data that are annually provided by the Member States a geographic breakdown of support is included. 
The various definitions of %quot%urban%quot% and %quot%rural%quot% areas that have been developed in different studies indicate the difficulty in formulating a single %quot%multi-purpose%quot% definition covering the whole EU for steering rural development interventions. 
41. A general finding which can be deducted from this exercise is that very few projects supported by EAGGF Guidance are situated in urban areas (for two out of four benchmarks 22 % and according to the OECD-classification only 9 %), which indicates a territorial dimension in rural development policy. 
42. The calculation presented by the Court includes an estimation based on a set of 300 samples. Furthermore, the comparison over time on the expenditure for Article 33 measures is difficult since the delimitation of Objective 5b areas for the programming period 1994 to 1999 has not been maintained for the period 2000 to 2006. 
43. Due to the diversity of Europe's regions, this kind of threshold setting is a very complex issue when aggregating data from a local level to a European level. Furthermore, Member States can choose in which area they decide to implement some or all of their measures and these are not necessarily the less populated ones. There may be cases where forms of support other than investment support fit better to the needs of particular types of rural areas (e.g specific support in LFAs being as a general rule less populated and remote areas). 
45. Table 2 illustrates that in Objective 1 areas 80 % of the expenditure of the projects reviewed went into rural areas. Next to this, the objective of reducing territorial imbalances is just one of the objectives to which rural development contributes. 
46. Following the OECD definition, which is based on population density, a high share of projects (91 %) implemented in Objective 1 regions are located in significant and predominantly rural regions which are in general the poorer parts of the Objective 1 regions. 
Observation 6 
The effectiveness of spending is measured by comparing the projects with its objectives. 
48. The judgement of interventions according to their results, impacts and the needs they aim to satisfy forms part of the evaluation exercise carried out at national or regional level. The syntheses of those national/regional rural development evaluations regularly carried out on behalf of the Commission allow an assessment to be made of the impacts of different measures at programme level. 
The possibility to measure the contribution of the immediate effects of single projects on the overall programmes’ objectives will be strengthened in the next programming period through ongoing evaluation of programmes via the Common Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (CMEF), which also will ensure a better follow up. 
49. The Commission acknowledges that integrated territorial approaches provide an important tool for implementing the rural development policy and has recommended this possibility in the current programming period and in the new Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 by encouraging integrated projects which combine several measures and by mainstreaming the Community initiative Leader. 
50. The necessity of integrating projects into a wider local development plan depends on the objective and nature of the project and is assessed by the Member States/regions. 
51. All projects have indirectly a potential wider impact, as beneficiaries are integrated in the economic life in rural areas and they play an important role there. 
Observation 7 
The Commission has undertaken serious efforts to remedy shortcomings in the quantity and quality of the monitoring data of Member States, already for the current programming period. Monitoring will be strengthened with the introduction of a CMEF for the next programming period in cooperation with the Member States. 
57. As part of the monitoring exercise, the Commission does check the output data provided by Member States in their annual progress reports. Evaluation does assess the impact of the measures in view of addressing their contribution on the established targets defined at programme level. 
The Commission has undertaken serious efforts to remedy shortcomings in the quantity and quality of the monitoring data of Member States, already for the current programming period. Monitoring will be strengthened with the introduction of a CMEF for the next programming period in cooperation with the Member States. 
58. (a) In line with Article 43 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 rural development plans shall include a description of the strategy proposed, its quantified objectives, and rural development priorities selected, as well as the geographical area covered. 
(d) The approach of commitments as a basis for output measurement seems to fit better to certain multi-annual types of RD support which are spread over time (e.g. agri-environment, afforestation, etc.) as these often do not show any concrete results during the first years of their implementation. For the period 2007 to 2013 realised expenditure will be put in the monitoring tables and financial reporting will be aligned as much as possible with physical reporting. 
The synthesis of the rural development mid-term evaluation reports includes financial data on the EAGGF expenditure per chapter and per Member State. 
(e) The variety of projects that are eligible under Article 33 measures is so wide that it is impossible to foresee monitoring indicators which would cover all projects. The list of common indicators included in the monitoring tables is by no means exhaustive. Member States can add additional indicators which are adapted to their specific needs or to the specific features of their programmes. 
59. For the current programming period, Member States are not obliged to apply the Common Evaluation Questions (CEQ) to rural development support financed through the Guidance Fund. The Commission agrees that this is a weakness of the current monitoring and evaluation system put in place, which will be solved for the next programming period through the creation of one single rural development fund. The year 2000 was the first year of reporting and mainly atypical since programme approval was still ongoing and the implementation of the measures was still in an early stage. 
60. The use of alternative indicators and additional national questions as supplement to the CEQ in national evaluation reports has been low. The specified common indicators were generally appropriate and the range of questions asked was relevant for addressing the evaluation of the rural development programmes. 
The system of %quot%ongoing evaluation%quot% introduced by the Common Monitoring and Evaluation Framework (CMEF) for the next programming period will enhance the contribution of monitoring to evaluation, as well as the data collection and the quantification of indicators. 
61. Some information is available at programme level, where evaluations take place, but not at the level of projects. Within the geographical scope of the programmes, evaluators investigate where outputs, results and impacts are realised. Table 5 of the monitoring tables, for example, includes a geographic breakdown of financial support and the number of applications approved. 
62. It is difficult to summarise at the level of the activity-based management procedures an adequate set of indicators describing the outcomes and achievements of RD policy which is broad by definition. Only a small number of indicators can give a proxy picture on this. This difficulty is further exacerbated in the current period due to the different management, monitoring, reporting and evaluation systems applied according to the programming patterns (Guidance, Guarantee, Leader+). Improvements are expected in future under the single Common Monitoring and Evaluation Framework. 
63. The monitoring synthesis reports and the various evaluation reports do provide data and information. Both mid-term and ex post evaluations, carried out by independent evaluators, provide an assessment of results and impacts of the rural development measures. Shortcomings included in the current system have been remedied for the future and should allow the Commission and other interested parties to get a complete insight into the monitoring and evaluation of rural development spending. 
64. The flexible design of the rural development policy with its variety of measures and objectives does not prevent Member States from setting out clear strategies and objectives in their rural development programmes as is required by Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999. 
- For the next programming period, a more strategic approach has been introduced through the Community Strategic Guidelines. This will allow Member States to better focus their RD strategies on relevant objectives deriving from specific needs. Furthermore, Member States need to allocate a minimum percentage of their national envelope for each axis ensuring thus a balanced programme, taking into account both sectoral and territorial concerns. 
65. The majority of the rural development investment measures are by definition targeted towards agriculture and farmers which explains the high share of support for the agricultural sector. However, since agriculture still plays an important role in the economy of rural areas, support to this sector can provide a significant contribution to the development of rural areas. 
- Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 sets out three core objectives for rural development support for the programming period 2007 to 2013: (1) improving the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, (2) improving the environment and the countryside, and (3) improving the quality of life in rural areas and encouraging diversification of economic activity. These objectives are implemented by means of measures which are grouped in four axes. Article 17 of the Regulation ensures a balance between the objectives by introducing minimum spending rates per axis. 
66. Taking into account the variety of regions in Europe and the different situations at national level, it is difficult to provide a single uniform definition of rural areas. Therefore, the areas eligible for intervention, as well as the selection and ranking of projects, is the responsibility of the Member States. 
- With the introduction of the national strategy plans a more targeted approach is foreseen for the next generation of rural development programmes. 
67. The eligibility of support under investments in agricultural holdings and investment in food processing is not limited to the rural areas defined for the purposes of the relevant Article 33 measures. The choice of the scope of these measures is consistent with their aim, respectively to contribute to the improvement of the agricultural income and of living, working and production conditions and to increase the competitiveness and added value of food processing, where these activities are present in the country (rural and non-rural areas). 
- The RDPs include a general description of the plan in which they indicate the geographical coverage as well as a description of the current situation, using quantified data, highlighting strengths, disparities, gaps and potential for rural development. This description takes into account the agricultural and forestry sector, rural economy, the demographic situation, human resources and employment and the state of the environment. On the basis of this information Member States describe the priorities for action and their appropriate strategy. 
- A further step in the direction of territorial targeting has been incorporated in the next programming period as Member States need to include in their RDPs the designation of their rural areas and indicate their importance. 
68. The Commission agrees that integrated territorial approaches provide an important tool for implementing the rural development policy and has encouraged both in the current and the next programming period the implementation of local development strategies. 
- The outcomes of the mid-term evaluation reports and the results of the ex-ante evaluations will form an important input into the current and new RDPs. Furthermore the national rural networks and the EU rural network will offer the floor for exchanging information and best practice. 
69. The Commission has undertaken serious efforts to improve the quality and quantity of the monitoring data of Member States for the current programming period. 
- The Commission has proposed, in collaboration with the Member States, a new and better Common Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for the next programming period. 
[1] Council Decision 2006/144/EC. 
[2] Recital 14 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999. 
[3] Published in June 2006. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
