Imposition by France of a public service obligation on scheduled air services between Grenoble (Saint Geoirs) and Paris (Orly) 
(2005/C 149/03) 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
1. Pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 of 23 July 1992 on access for Community air carriers to intra-Community air routes, France has decided to impose a public service obligation on scheduled air services between Grenoble (Saint Geoirs) and Paris (Orly). 
2. The public service obligation is as follows: 
Minimum frequency 
The minimum level of service provided must be two return trips per day from Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays, throughout the year. 
The service must be operated without a stopover between Grenoble (Saint Geoirs) and Paris (Orly). 
Minimum capacity 
The service must be operated with twin jet or twin turbo prop aircraft having a seating capacity of at least 45. 
Timetables 
Timetables must be such as to enable passengers on business trips to make the round trip within the day and to spend at least eight hours at their destination, whether Grenoble or Paris. 
Flight bookings 
Seats on these flights must be sold using at least one computerised booking system. 
Continuity of service: 
Except in cases of force majeure, the number of flights cancelled for reasons directly attributable to the carrier must not exceed 3 % of the number of flights scheduled in any year. The carrier must give six months' notice before discontinuing these services. 
Community carriers are hereby informed that the operation of air services without regard to the abovementioned public service obligations may result in administrative and/or legal sanctions. 
3. Slots have been reserved at Paris (Orly) airport for the scheduled Grenoble (Saint Geoirs) â&#x20AC;&#x201D; Paris (Orly) service pursuant to Article 9 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 of 18 January 1993 on common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 793/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004. Air carriers interested in this route can obtain information about the allocation of these slots from the Paris airports coordinator. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
