Commission notice pursuant to Article%nbsp%4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No%nbsp%2408/92 %mdash% Imposition of a public service obligation for the period 1.3.2006 %mdash% 28.2.2009 on scheduled air services between Mariehamn/%Aring%land (MHQ) and Stockholm/Arlanda (ARN), supplementing earlier decisions Text with EEA relevance 
Commission notice pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 
Imposition of a public service obligation for the period 1.3.2006 — 28.2.2009 on scheduled air services between Mariehamn/Åland (MHQ) and Stockholm/Arlanda (ARN), supplementing earlier decisions 
(2006/C 93/03) 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
Pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 of 23 July 1992 on access for Community air carriers to intra-Community air routes, the Government of Åland has decided to impose a public service obligation in respect of scheduled air services for the route Mariehamn (MHQ) — Stockholm/Arlanda (ARN) as follows: 
Minimum frequency 
During the period 1.3.2006 — 28.2.2009, the frequency Monday — Friday shall be at least 2 round trips per day. There will be no flights in July on account of the low level of demand. All flights must be direct. 
Number of seats 
At least 30 seats shall be available per flight and at least 2500 seats per month. If the cabin factor exceeds 80 % during any calendar quarter in the first year, the offer shall be adjusted for the next period of the timetable. 
Timetable 
Travellers on any working day from Åland must have the opportunity to make a round trip to all destinations with scheduled air traffic connections in Sweden, and to Oslo, Copenhagen and the major airports in the rest of Europe. 
The aircraft should arrive at ARN Monday — Friday by 06.30 at the latest and between 16.30 and 18.30. Departure from ARN should be Monday — Friday between 08.00 and 09.30 and between 19.30 and 21.00, if appropriate slots can be provided. During certain days of the year when demand is particularly low, such as bank holiday weekends or lengthy holiday periods, flights may, in special circumstances, be reduced, with the agreement of the awarding authority, subject to a specially agreed credit per single trip. By analogy, the offer may be increased subject to a specially agreed fare per round trip. 
Type of aircraft 
The true air speed (TAS) shall be at least 360 km/h. The aircraft must have a pressurised cabin with toilet facilities. The baggage and loading allowance, per passenger, on a fully loaded aircraft and under normal weather conditions, shall be at least 20 kg. 
Fares 
The fare for a round trip MHQ-ARN must not exceed EUR 290 including taxes and VAT. 
Price adjustments can be made in accordance with SCB's flight fare index for business trips, subject to approval by the Government of Åland. Discount fares shall be made available, eg for children, young people, students and senior citizens. 
Information, booking, sales and marketing 
Reliable information shall be available for the whole trip prior to departure. The airline is responsible for ensuring that up-to-date and correct timetable, fare and other information is readily available and is spread by an appropriate means. Marketing shall also take place through advertisements in the local press, other media and in tourist brochures, with the objective of promoting air travel. 
Continuity of flights 
A maximum of 20 % of departures may be more than 5 minutes late and a maximum of 5 % of departures may be more than 15 minutes late. Apart from situations beyond the airline's control, the regularity of flights shall be at least 99 % per calendar quarter. The airline must give a minimum of 6 months' notice prior to cancellation of the operation. 
Accessibility 
The airline must meet the requirements of travellers in the following way: 
- Boarding and disembarkation must take place in a dignified, safe, and secure manner. 
- Special attention shall be paid to sick and disabled people and people with special needs and their legitimate requirements in terms of in-flight assistance. 
- Escorting and other reasonable services shall be provided when changing flights. 
- Information on travel opportunities and travel routes shall be given upon request. 
- Safety and other information must be provided graphically (in such a way that passengers with a sight or hearing impediment can assimilate it). 
- Booking and purchase of tickets shall be simple for the traveller. 
- All on-board announcements must be given in Swedish and English. 
Environmental requirements 
The aircraft's noise levels must not exceed the current limits. All equipment installed on the aircraft that is designed to improve comfort and the environment must function and be used in accordance with current instructions. 
Reporting 
The airline operating the MHQ-ARN route is required to report to the Government of Åland each calendar quarter on how its service obligations have been met. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
