Notice of initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of ethyl alcohol originating in Guatemala and Pakistan 
(2005/C 129/05) 
The Commission has received a complaint pursuant to Article 5 of Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 on protection of dumped imports from countries non members of the European Community ("the basic Regulation") [1], as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 [2], alleging that imports of ethyl alcohol, originating in Guatemala and Pakistan ("the countries concerned"), are being dumped and are thereby causing material injury to the Community industry. 
1. Complaint 
The complaint was lodged on 11 April 2005 by the Committee of Industrial Ethanol Producers of the EU (CIEP) ("the complainant") on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 30 %, of the total Community production of ethyl alcohol. 
2. Product 
The product allegedly being dumped is ethyl alcohol, whether denatured or undenatured, having an alcoholic strength by volume of 80 % vol or higher originating in Guatemala and Pakistan ("the product concerned"), normally declared within CN codes 22071000 and ex22072000. These CN codes are only given for information. 
3. Allegation of dumping 
The allegation of dumping in respect of Guatemala and Pakistan is based on a comparison of normal value established on the basis of domestic prices, with the export prices of the product concerned to the Community. 
On this basis, the dumping margins calculated are significant for all exporting countries concerned. 
4. Allegation of injury 
The complainant has provided evidence that imports of the product concerned from Guatemala and Pakistan have increased overall in absolute terms and in terms of market share. 
It is alleged that the volumes and the prices of the imported product concerned have had, among other consequences, a negative impact on the market share held, the quantities sold and the level of prices charged by the Community industry, resulting in substantial adverse effects on the overall performance and the financial situation of the Community industry. 
5. Procedure 
Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that the complaint has been lodged by or on behalf of the Community industry and that there is sufficient evidence to justify the initiation of a proceeding, the Commission hereby initiates an investigation pursuant to Article 5 of the basic Regulation. 
5.1. Procedure for the determination of dumping and injury 
The investigation will determine whether the product concerned originating in Guatemala and Pakistan is being dumped and whether this dumping has caused injury. 
(a) Sampling 
In view of the apparent large number of parties involved in this proceeding, the Commission may decide to apply sampling in accordance with Article 17 of the basic Regulation. 
(i) Sampling for exporters/producers in Pakistan 
In order to enable the Commission to decide whether sampling is necessary and, if so, to select a sample, all exporters/producers, or representatives acting on their behalf, are hereby requested to make themselves known by contacting the Commission and providing the following information on their company or companies within the time limit set in point 6(b)(i) and in the format indicated in point 7: 
- name, address, e-mail address, telephone, and fax, and/or telex numbers and contact person, 
- the turnover in local currency and the volume in tonnes of the product concerned sold for export to the Community during the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005, 
- the turnover in local currency and the sales volume in tonnes for the product concerned on the domestic market during the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005, 
- whether the company intends to claim an individual margin [3] (individual margins can only be claimed by producers), 
- the precise activities of the company with regard to the production of the product concerned, 
- the names and the precise activities of all related companies [4] involved in the production and/or selling (export and/or domestic) of the product concerned, 
- any other relevant information that would assist the Commission in the selection of the sample, 
- an indication of whether the company or companies agree to their inclusion in the sample, which implies replying to a questionnaire and accepting an on-the-spot investigation of their response. 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for the selection of the sample of exporters/producers, the Commission will, in addition, contact the authorities of the exporting country, and any known associations of exporters/producers. 
(ii) Sampling for Community producers 
In view of the large number of Community producers supporting the complaint, the Commission intends to investigate injury to the Community industry by applying sampling. 
In order to enable the Commission to select a sample, all Community producers are hereby requested to provide the following information on their company or companies within the time limit set in point 6(b)(i): 
- name, address, e-mail address, telephone, and fax, and/or telex numbers and contact person, 
- the total turnover in euro of the company during the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005, 
- the precise activities of the company with regard to the production of the product concerned, 
- the value in euro of sales of the product concerned made in the Community market during the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005, 
- the volume in tonnes of sales of the product concerned made in the Community market during the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005, 
- the volume in tonnes of the production of the product concerned during the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005, 
- the names and the precise activities of all related companies [4] involved in the production and/or selling of the product concerned, 
- any other relevant information that would assist the Commission in the selection of the sample, 
- an indication of whether the company or companies agree to their inclusion in the sample, which implies replying to a questionnaire and accepting an on-the-spot investigation of their response. 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for the selection of the sample of Community producers, the Commission will, in addition, contact the association (CIEP) of Community producers. 
(iii) Final selection of the samples 
All interested parties wishing to submit any relevant information regarding the selection of the samples must do so within the time limit set in point 6(b)(ii). 
The Commission intends to make the final selection of the samples after having consulted the parties concerned that have expressed their willingness to be included in the samples. 
Companies included in the samples must reply to a questionnaire within the time limit set in point 6(b)(iii) and must cooperate within the framework of the investigation. 
If sufficient cooperation is not forthcoming, the Commission may base its findings, in accordance with Articles 17(4) and 18 of the basic Regulation, on the facts available. A finding based on facts available may be less advantageous to the party concerned, as explained in point 8 of this notice. 
(b) Questionnaires 
In order to obtain the information it deems necessary for its investigation, the Commission will send questionnaires to the sampled Community industry and to any association of producers in the Community, to the sampled exporters/producers in Pakistan, to the exporters/producers in Guatemala, to any association of exporters/producers, to the importers, to any association of importers named in the complaint, and to the authorities of the exporting countries concerned. 
(i) Exporters producers in Guatemala 
All such interested parties should contact the Commission forthwith by fax, but not later than the time limit set out in point 6(a)(i), in order to find out whether they are listed in the complaint and, if necessary, request a questionnaire, given that the time limit set in point 6(a)(ii) applies to all such interested parties. 
(ii) Exporters/producers claiming an individual margin in Pakistan 
Exporters/producers in Pakistan claiming an individual margin, with a view to the application of Articles 17(3) and 9(6) of the basic Regulation, must submit a completed questionnaire within the time limit set in point 6(a)(ii) of this notice. They therefore have to request a questionnaire within the time limit set in point 6(a)(i). However, such parties should be aware that if sampling is applied to exporters/producers, the Commission may nonetheless decide not to calculate an individual margin for them, if the number of exporters/producers is so large that individual examination would be unduly burdensome and would prevent the timely completion of the investigation. 
(c) Collection of information and holding of hearings 
All interested parties are hereby invited to make their views known, submit information other than questionnaire replies and to provide supporting evidence. This information and supporting evidence has to reach the Commission within the time limit set in point 6(a)(ii). 
Furthermore, the Commission may hear interested parties, provided that they make a request showing that there are particular reasons why they should be heard. This request must be made within the time limit set in point 6(a)(iii). 
5.2. Procedure for assessment of Community interest 
In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation and in the event that the allegations of dumping and injury caused thereby are substantiated, a decision will be reached as to whether the adoption of anti-dumping measures would not be against the Community interest. For this reason the Community industry, importers, their representative associations, representative users and representative consumer organisations, provided that they prove that there is an objective link between their activity and the product concerned, may, within the general time limits set in point 6(a)(ii), make themselves known and provide the Commission with information. The parties which have acted in conformity with the precedent sentence may request a hearing setting the particular reasons why they should be heard within the time limit set in point 6(a)(iii). It should be noted that any information submitted pursuant to Article 21 will only be taken into account if supported by factual evidence at the time of submission. 
6. Time limits 
(a) General time limits 
(i) For parties to request a questionnaire 
All interested parties should request a questionnaire as soon as possible, but not later than 15 days after the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(ii) For parties to make themselves known, to submit questionnaire replies and any other information 
All interested parties, if their representations are to be taken into account during the investigation, must make themselves known by contacting the Commission, present their views and submit questionnaire replies or any other information within 40 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union, unless otherwise specified. Attention is drawn to the fact that the exercise of most procedural rights set out in the basic Regulation depends on the party's making itself known within the aforementioned period. 
Companies selected in a sample must submit questionnaire replies within the time limits specified in point 6(b)(iii). 
(iii) Hearings 
All interested parties may also apply to be heard by the Commission within the same 40 day time limit. 
(b) Specific time limit in respect of sampling 
(i) The information specified in points 5.1(a)(i) and 5.1(a)(ii) should reach the Commission within 15 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union, given that the Commission intends to consult parties concerned that have expressed their willingness to be included in the sample on its final selection within a period of 21 days of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(ii) All other information relevant for the selection of the sample as referred to in point 5.1(a)(iii) must reach the Commission within a period of 21 days of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
(iii) The questionnaire replies from sampled parties must reach the Commission within 37 days from the date of the notification of their inclusion in the sample. 
7. Written submissions, questionnaire replies and correspondence 
All submissions and requests made by interested parties must be made in writing (not in electronic format, unless otherwise specified) and must indicate the name, address, e-mail address, telephone and fax, and/or telex numbers of the interested party. All written submissions, including the information requested in this notice, questionnaire replies and correspondence provided by interested parties on a confidential basis shall be labelled as "Limited" [5] and, in accordance with Article 19(2) of the basic Regulation, shall be accompanied by a non-confidential version, which will be labelled "For inspection by interested parties". 
Commission address for correspondence: 
European Commission 
Directorate General for Trade 
Directorate B 
Office: J-79 5/16 
B-1049 Brussels 
Fax (32-2) 295 65 05 
8. Non-cooperation 
In cases in which any interested party refuses access to or does not provide the necessary information within the time limits, or significantly impedes the investigation, provisional or final findings, affirmative or negative, may be made in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available. 
Where it is found that any interested party has supplied false or misleading information, the information shall be disregarded and use may be made of the facts available. If an interested party does not cooperate or cooperates only partially and findings are therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, the result may be less favourable to that party than if it had cooperated. 
9. Schedule of the investigation 
The investigation will be concluded, according to Article 6(9) of the basic Regulation within 15 months of the date of the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. According to Article 7(1) of the basic Regulation, provisional measures may be imposed no later than 9 months from the publication of this notice in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
[1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12). 
[2] OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12. 
[3] Individual margins may be claimed pursuant to Article 17(3) of the basic Regulation for companies not included in the sample. 
[4] For guidance on the meaning of related companies, please refer to Article 143 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 laying down provisions for the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code (OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1). 
[5] This means that the document is for internal use only. It is protected pursuant to Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43). It is a confidential document pursuant to Article 19 of the basic Regulation and Article 6 of the WTO Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (Anti-dumping Agreement). 
-------------------------------------------------- 
