Recommendation of the European Central Bank of 16 July 2004 on the statistical reporting requirements of the European Central Bank in the field of balance of payments and international investment position statistics, and the international reserves template (ECB/2004/16) 
Recommendation of the European Central Bank 
of 16 July 2004 
on the statistical reporting requirements of the European Central Bank in the field of balance of payments and international investment position statistics, and the international reserves template 
(ECB/2004/16) 
(2004/C 292/05) 
THE GOVERNING COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK, 
Having regard to the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, and in particular to Article 5.1 and the third indent of Article 34.1 thereof, 
Whereas: 
(1) To fulfil its tasks, the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) requires comprehensive and reliable balance of payments and international investment position statistics and the international reserves template, showing the main items affecting monetary conditions and exchange markets in the euro area. The European Central Bank's (ECB's) statistical requirements in this area are laid down in Guideline ECB/2004/15 of 16 July 2004 on the statistical reporting requirements of the European Central Bank in the field of balance of payments and international investment position statistics, and the international reserve template [1]. 
(2) Article 5.1, first sentence, of the Statute requires the ECB, assisted by the national central banks (NCBs), to collect either from the competent authorities other than NCBs or directly from economic agents the statistical information necessary in order for it to undertake the tasks of the ESCB. Article 5.1, second sentence, provides that for these purposes it shall cooperate with the Community institutions or bodies and with the competent authorities of the Member States or third countries and with international organisations. 
(3) Information necessary to meet the ECB's requirements in the field of balance of payments and international investment position statistics may be collected and/or compiled by competent authorities other than NCBs. Therefore, some of the tasks to be undertaken to meet these requirements require cooperation between the ECB or the NCBs and such competent authorities, in line with Article 5.1 of the Statute. Article 4 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank [2] requires the Member States to organise themselves in the field of statistics and to cooperate fully with the ESCB in order to ensure the fulfilment of the obligations arising out of Article 5 of the Statute. 
(4) In cases where, in accordance with national rules and established practices, the reporting agents report to competent authorities other than NCBs, such authorities and their respective NCBs have to cooperate with each other to ensure that the statistical requirements of the ECB are met. In Ireland the Central Statistics Office (CSO), and in Italy the Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi (UIC), collect and compile necessary information in the field of balance of payments and international investment position statistics. In order to meet the said statistical requirements, the Central Bank and Financial Services Authority of Ireland and the CSO, and the Banca d'Italia and the UIC, should cooperate with each other. Such cooperation should include the establishment of a permanent structure for transmission of data, unless the same result is already achieved by national legislation. The UIC, in accordance with Italian Legislative Decree No 319/9 of 26 August 1998 [3], is an instrumental entity of the Banca d'Italia. 
(5) As laid down in Article 4(3) of Guideline ECB/2004/15, where competent authorities other than NCBs are the source of statistical information marked as confidential, such information will be used by the ECB exclusively for the exercise of ESCB-related statistical tasks, unless the reporting agent or the other legal or natural person, entity or branch which provided the information, assuming that it can be identified, has explicitly given its consent to the use of such information for other purposes. 
(6) Data on monthly and quarterly balance of payments and quarterly and annual international investment position statistics showing the main items affecting monetary conditions and exchange markets in the euro area should be made available to the Central Bank and Financial Services Authority of Ireland and the Banca d'Italia in a timely manner. For this purpose the required statistical information should be transmitted according to modalities agreed upon with the respective NCB or, in the absence thereof, on or before the 30th working day following the month to which data relate for monthly balance of payments data, within three months of the end of the quarter to which data relate for quarterly balance of payments and international investment position data and within nine months of the date to which data relate for the annual international investment position data. 
(7) The centralised securities database (CSDB), which will in the future be used for many different statistical (compilation and production) and non-statistical (economic, financial stability or operation analyses) purposes, will be made available to NCBs. The data content will be made available to competent authorities other than NCBs, subject to any legal constraints. This will, notably, assist their production of the required data for the compilation of the euro-area transactions and positions statistics concerning portfolio investment. In particular, by combining information from the CSDB with data collected on a security-by-security basis, it should be possible to accurately compile transactions and positions in portfolio investment securities issued by euro-area residents and held by residents in other euro-area countries. This will ultimately allow the compilation of a sectoral breakdown for the euro-area portfolio investment liabilities data. 
(8) It is necessary to set up a procedure to carry out technical amendments to the Annexes to this recommendation in an effective manner, provided that such amendments neither change the underlying conceptual framework nor affect the reporting burden of reporting agents in Member States. Account will be taken of the views of the Statistics Committee of the ESCB (hereinafter "the STC") when following this procedure. NCBs and other competent national authorities may propose such technical amendments to the Annexes to this recommendation through the Statistics Committee and its relevant working group. 
(9) Since the adoption of Recommendation ECB/2003/8 of 2 May 2003 on the statistical reporting requirements of the European Central Bank in the field of balance of payments and international investment position statistics, and the international reserves template [4], tangible progress has been made with new requirements and data collection and compilation methods within the euro area. It is therefore necessary to replace Recommendation ECB/2003/8 with the present recommendation, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS RECOMMENDATION: 
Article 1 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this recommendation: 
- "participating Member State" shall mean a Member State which has adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty, 
- the term "resident" shall have the same meaning as defined in Article 1 of Regulation (EC) No 2533/98, 
- "euro area" shall mean the economic territory of the participating Member States, and the ECB. Territories forming part of, or countries associated with, euro-area Member States are given in Annex III, Table 10, 
- "Eurosystem" shall mean the NCBs of the participating Member States and the ECB, 
- "cross-border transaction" shall mean any transaction that creates or redeems, in full or in part, claims or debts, or any transaction that implies the transfer of a right over an object between residents of the euro area and non-euro-area residents, 
- "cross-border positions" shall mean the stock of financial claims on and financial liabilities to non-euro-area residents. Cross-border positions shall also encompass (i) land, other tangible non-produced assets and other immovable assets physically located outside the euro area and owned by euro-area residents and/or located inside the euro area and owned by non-euro-area residents and (ii) monetary gold and special drawing rights (SDRs) owned by euro-area residents. 
However, to the extent necessary to compile the portfolio investment account and the portfolio investment income account within the balance of payments statistics, and the portfolio investment account within the international investment position statistics, covering the euro area, the terms "cross-border positions" and "cross-border transactions" also include positions and transactions in the assets and/or liabilities of euro-area residents vis-Ă -vis residents of other euro-area Member States, 
- "reserve assets" shall mean highly liquid, marketable and creditworthy claims held by the Eurosystem on non-euro-area residents and denominated in currencies other than the euro, plus gold, reserve positions in the IMF and SDR holdings, 
- "other foreign currency assets" shall mean (i) claims held by the Eurosystem on euro-area residents denominated in currencies other than the euro and (ii) claims held by the Eurosystem on non-euro-area residents denominated in currencies other than the euro which do not meet the liquidity, marketability and creditworthiness criteria of reserve assets, 
- "reserve-related liabilities" shall mean predetermined and contingent short-term net drains on the Eurosystem, similar to reserve assets and other foreign currency assets of the Eurosystem, 
- "balance of payments" shall mean the statistical statement that reports, with the appropriate breakdown, cross-border transactions during the period under review, 
- "international reserves template" shall mean the statistical statement that reports, with the appropriate breakdown, stocks of reserve assets, other foreign currency assets and reserve-related liabilities of the Eurosystem at a reference date, 
- "international investment position" shall mean the balance sheet that reports, with the appropriate breakdown, the stock of cross-border financial assets and liabilities at a reference date, 
- "security-by-security" data collection shall mean the collection of data broken down into individual securities. 
Article 2 
Provision of statistical information to the NCBs 
1. In so far as the collection of statistical information concerning cross-border transactions and positions is entrusted to the addressees of this recommendation, each shall ensure that it is made available to the respective NCB in a timely manner. For this purpose, unless otherwise agreed with the said NCB, the required statistical information shall be transmitted on or before the 30th working day following the month to which data relate for monthly balance of payments data, within three months of the end of the quarter to which data relate for quarterly balance of payments and international investment position data and within nine months of the date to which data relate for the annual international investment position data. 
2. The information shall be made available in accordance with the statistical standards and requirements of the ECB concerning balance of payments and international investment position statistics as laid down in Annexes I, II, III, IV, V and VII to this recommendation. Without prejudice to the ECB's monitoring task as laid down in Annex VI to this recommendation, its addressees shall monitor the quality and reliability of statistical information made available to the respective NCB. 
Article 3 
Permanent cooperation 
The addressees of this recommendation shall establish with their respective NCB, in writing, the appropriate modalities of cooperation to ensure a permanent structure for transmission of data which fulfils the statistical standards and requirements of the ECB, unless the same result is already achieved by national legislation. 
Article 4 
Simplified amendment procedure 
Taking account of the views of the STC, the Executive Board of the ECB shall be entitled to make technical amendments to the Annexes to this recommendation, provided that such amendments neither change the underlying conceptual framework nor affect the reporting burden of reporting agents in Member States. 
Article 5 
Final provisions 
1. This recommendation replaces Recommendation ECB/2003/8. 
2. This recommendation is addressed to the CSO in Ireland and the UIC in Italy. 
Done at Frankfurt am Main, 16 July 2004. 
The President of the ECB 
Jean-Claude Trichet 
-------------------------------------------------- 
[1] OJ L 354, 30.11.2004. 
[2] OJ L 318, 27.11.1998, p. 8. 
[3] Gazzetta ufficiale della Repubblica italiana No 206 of 4 September 1998. 
[4] OJ C 126, 28.5.2003, p. 7. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
+++++ ANNEX 1 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
+++++ ANNEX 2 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
+++++ ANNEX 3 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
+++++ ANNEX 4 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
+++++ ANNEX 5 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
+++++ ANNEX 6 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
+++++ ANNEX 7 +++++&lt;/br&gt; 
