Common consular instructions on visas for the diplomatic missions and consular posts 
Common consular instructions on visas for the diplomatic missions and consular posts 
(2005/C 326/01) 
CONTENTS 
I. General provisions 
1. Scope 
2. Definition and types of visa 
2.1. Uniform visas 
2.1.1. Airport transit visas 
2.1.2. Transit visas 
2.1.3. Short-term or travel visas multiple entry visas 
2.1.4. Group visas 
2.2. Long-term visas 
2.3. Visas with limited territorial validity 
2.4. Visas issued at the border 
2.5. Documents having the same value as a visa, authorising the crossing of external borders: FTD/FRTD 
II. Diplomatic mission or consular post responsible 
1. Determining the State responsible 
1.1. State responsible for deciding on an application 
1.2. State representing the State responsible 
2. Visa applications requiring consultation with the national central authority or the authority of one or more other Contracting Parties in accordance with Article 17(2) 
2.1. Consultation with the national central authority 
2.2. Consultation with the central authority of one or more Contracting Parties 
2.3. Consultation procedure in the framework of representation 
3. Visa applications lodged by non-residents 
4. Authorisation to issue uniform visas 
III. Receipt of the application 
1. Visa application forms. Number of application forms 
2. Documents to be enclosed 
3. Guarantees regarding return and means of subsistence 
4. Personal interview with the applicant 
IV. Legal basis 
V. Examination of applications and decisions taken 
Basic criteria for examining applications 
1. Examination of visa applications 
1.1. Verification of the visa application 
1.2. Verification of the applicant's identity 
1.3. Verification of the travel document 
1.4. Verification of other documents depending on the application 
— Supporting documents regarding the purpose of the journey 
— Supporting documents regarding means of transport and return 
— Supporting documents regarding means of subsistence 
— Supporting documents regarding accommodation 
— Other documents which may be required 
1.5. Assessment of the applicant's good faith 
2. Decision-making procedure for visa applications 
2.1. Choice of type of visa and number of entries 
2.2. Administrative responsibility of the intervening authority 
2.3. Procedure to be followed in cases requiring prior consultation with the central authorities of the other Contracting Parties 
(a) Procedure 
(b) Transmission of applications to the national central authority 
(c) Information transmitted to the central authority 
(d) Transmission of applications between central authorities 
(e) Deadline for replies: Extension 
(f) Decision based on the outcome of the consultation 
(g) Transmission of specific documents 
2.4. Refusal to examine an application, to issue a visa 
3. Visas with limited territorial validity 
VI. How to fill in visa stickers 
1. Common entries section (section 8) 
1.1. "VALID FOR" heading 
1.2. "FROM … TO" heading 
1.3. "NUMBER OF ENTRIES" heading 
1.4. "DURATION OF VISIT … DAYS" heading 
1.5. "ISSUED IN … ON …" heading 
1.6. "PASSPORT NUMBER" heading 
1.7. "TYPE OF VISA" heading 
1.8. "NAME AND FIRST NAME" heading 
2. National entries section (comments) (Section 9) 
3. Section for the photograph 
4. Section to be electronically scanned (Section 5) 
5. Other aspects relating to the issue of visas 
5.1. Signing visas 
5.2. Invalidating completed visa stickers 
5.3. Affixing visa stickers to passports 
5.4. Passports and travel documents to which uniform visas may be affixed 
5.5. Stamp of the issuing diplomatic mission or consular post 
VII. Administrative management and organisation 
1. Organisation of visa departments 
2. Filing 
3. Visa registers 
4. Fees to be charged for the issue of visas 
VIII. Consular cooperation at local level 
1. Outline of consular cooperation at local level 
2. How to avoid multiple applications or applications which are lodged after a recent refusal to issue 
3. Assessment of the applicant's good faith 
4. Exchange of statistics 
5. Visa applications processed by private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour operators 
5.1. Types of intermediary 
5.2. Harmonisation of cooperation with private administrative agencies, travel agencies, tour operators and their retailers 
ANNEXES TO THE COMMON CONSULAR INSTRUCTIONS ON VISAS 
1. - Joint list of third countries whose citizens are required to have a visa by Member States bound by Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2414/02001 and Regulation (EC) No 453/2003 
- Joint list of third countries whose citizens are exempted from the visa requirement by Member States bound by Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2414/02001 and Regulation (EC) No 453/2003 
2. Regulations governing the movement of holders of diplomatic, official and service passports and holders of laissez-passers issued by certain International Intergovernmental Organisations to their officials 
3. List of States whose nationals are subject to the airport transit visa requirement, where holders of travel documents issued by these States are also subject to this visa requirement 
4. List of documents entitling holders to entry without a visa 
5. List of visa applications requiring prior consultation with the central authorities, in accordance with Article 17(2). 
6. List of honorary consuls authorised to issue uniform visas in exceptional cases and on a temporary basis 
7. Reference amounts determined annually by the national authorities for the crossing of borders. 
8. Uniform format for visa stickers and information on their technical specifications and security features 
9. Information to be entered by the Contracting Parties, if necessary, in the "comments" section 
10. Instructions on inserting information in the optical reading area 
11. Criteria for determining whether a travel document may bear a visa 
12. Fees to be charged, in EURO, corresponding to the administrative costs of processing the visa application 
13. Guidelines on how to fill in visa stickers 
14. Obligations as regards information to be sent by Contracting Parties when visas with limited territorial validity are issued, when the period of validity of uniform visas is cancelled, revoked or reduced and when national residence permits are issued 
15. Specimen harmonised forms providing proof of invitation, sponsorship and accommodation drafted by the Contracting Parties 
16. Specimen harmonised uniform visa application form 
17. Facilitated Transit Document (FTD) and Facilitated Rail Transit Document (FRTD) 
18. Table of representation for issuing uniform visas 
COMMON CONSULAR INSTRUCTIONS 
on visas for the diplomatic missions and consular posts of the contracting parties to the Schengen Convention 
SUBJECT: Conditions governing the issue of uniform visas, valid for the territory of all the Contracting Parties. 
I. GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1. Scope 
The following common provisions, which are based on the provisions of Chapter 3 (sections 1 and 2) of the Convention Implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 between the Governments of the States of the Benelux Economic Union, the Federal Republic of Germany and the French Republic on the gradual abolition of checks at their common borders (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention") signed in Schengen on 19 June 1990, and which Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece and Austria have since acceded to, apply to the examination of visa applications for a visit not exceeding three months, including transit visas, valid for the territory of all the Contracting Parties. [1] 
Visas for visits exceeding three months remain subject to national procedures and only authorise the holder to stay in the one national territory. Nevertheless, such visas shall enable their holders to transit through the territories of the other Contracting Parties in order to reach the territory of the Contracting Party which issued the visa, unless they fail to fulfil the entry conditions referred to in Article 5(1)(a), (d) and (e) or they are on the national list of alerts of the Contracting Party through whose territory they seek to transit. 
2. Definition and types of visa 
2.1. Uniform visas 
Uniform visas are the authorisation or decision taking the form of a sticker affixed by a Contracting Party to a passport, travel document or other document which entitles the holder to cross the border. It enables aliens subject to the visa requirement to present themselves at the external border of the Contracting Party which issued the visa or that of another Contracting Party and request, depending on the type of visa, transit or residence, provided that the other transit or entry conditions have been met. Mere possession of a uniform visa does not confer automatic right of entry. 
2.1.1. Airport transit visas 
This visa entitles aliens who are required to have such a visa to pass through the international transit area of airports without actually entering the national territory of the country concerned, during a stop-over or transfer between two stages of an international flight. The requirement to have this visa is an exception to the general right to transit without a visa through the abovementioned international transit area. 
Nationals from the countries listed in Annex 3 and persons who are not necessarily nationals of those countries but who possess travel documents issued by their authorities are required to possess this type of visa. 
Exceptions to the airport transit visa requirement are laid down in Section III of Annex 3. 
2.1.2. Transit visas 
This visa entitles aliens who are travelling from one Third State to another Third State to pass through the territories of the Contracting Parties. 
This visa may be issued for one, two or exceptionally several transits, provided that the duration in each case does not exceed five days. 
2.1.3. Short-stay or travel visas: multiple-entry visas 
This visa entitles aliens who seek to enter the territories of the Contracting Parties, for reasons other than immigration, to pay a continuous visit or several visits, the duration of which does not exceed three months in any half-year from the date of first entry. As a general rule, this visa may be issued for one or several entries. 
In the case of aliens who need to travel frequently to one or several Schengen States, for example on business, short-stay visas may be issued for several visits, provided that the total length of these visits does not exceed three months in any half-year. This multiple entry visa may be valid for one year, and in exceptional cases, for more than a year for certain categories of persons. (see V, 2, 2.1). 
2.1.4. Group visas 
This is a transit visa or a visa limited to a maximum of thirty days, which may be affixed to a group passport — except where national legislation provides otherwise — issued to a group of aliens formed prior to the decision to travel, provided that the members of the group enter the territory, stay there and leave it as a group. 
Group visas may be issued to groups of between 5 and 50 people. The person in charge of the group shall possess an individual passport and, where necessary, an individual visa. 
By way of derogation from the foregoing, group transit visas may be issued to seamen in accordance with the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 415/2003 of 27 February 2003 on the issue of visas at the border, including the issue of such visas to seamen in transit [2]. 
2.2. Long-stay visas 
Visas for visits exceeding three months shall be national visas issued by one of the Member States in accordance with its national legislation. 
However, such visas shall, for a period of not more than three months from their initial date of validity, be valid concurrently as uniform short-stay visas, provided that they were issued in accordance with the common conditions and criteria adopted under or pursuant to the relevant provisions of Chapter 3, section I of the aforementioned Convention and their holders fulfil the entry conditions referred to in Article 5(1)(a), (c), (d) and (e) of the Convention and contained in Part IV of these Instructions. Otherwise, such visas shall enable their holders merely to transit through the territories of the other Contracting Parties in order to reach the territory of the Member State which issued the visa, unless the holders do not fulfil the entry conditions referred to in Article 5(1)(a), (d) and (e) or are on the national list of alerts of the Member State through whose territory they seek to transit. 
2.3. Visas with limited territorial validity 
This visa is affixed in exceptional cases to a passport, travel document or other document which entitles the holder to cross the border, where the visit is authorised only in the national territory of one or more Contracting Parties, provided that both entry and exit are through the territory of this or these Contracting Parties (see V.3 of these Instructions). 
2.4. Visas issued at the border [3] 
2.5. Documents having the same value as a visa, authorising the crossing of external borders: FTD/FRTD 
For facilitated transit, an FTD or an FRTD can be issued in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 693/2003 [4] and (EC) No 694/2003 [5] (see Annex 17). 
II. DIPLOMATIC MISSION OR CONSULAR POST RESPONSIBLE 
Aliens who are subject to the visa requirement (see Annex 1) and who seek to enter the territory of a Contracting Party, are obliged to apply to the visa section in the diplomatic mission or consular post responsible. 
1. Determining the State responsible 
1.1. State responsible for deciding on an application 
The following are responsible for examining applications for short-stay or transit uniform visas: 
(a) - The Contracting Party in whose territory the sole or main destination of the visit is situated. Under no circumstances may a transit Contracting Party be considered the country of main destination. 
The diplomatic mission or consular post with which the application is lodged shall decide, on a case-by-case basis, which is the Contracting Party of main destination, bearing in mind, in its assessment, all the facts and, in particular, the purpose of the visit, the route and duration of visit or visits. When assessing these factors, the mission or post will focus mainly on the supporting documents submitted by the applicant. 
- It shall focus in particular on the main reason for or the purpose of the visit when one or more destinations are the direct result of or additional to another destination; 
- It shall focus in particular on the longest visit when no destination is the direct result or additional to another destination; where the visits are of equal length, the first destination will be the determining factor. 
(b) - The Contracting Party of first entry, when the Contracting Party of main destination cannot be determined. 
Contracting Party of first entry shall be the State whose external border the applicant crosses in order to enter the Schengen area after having had his/her documents checked. 
- When the Contracting Party of first entry does not require a visa, it is not obliged to issue a visa and — unless it issues the visa voluntarily, subject to the consent of the person concerned — the responsibility is transferred to the first Contracting Party of destination or of transit which requires a visa. 
- The examination of applications and the issue of visas with limited territorial validity (limited to the territory of one Contracting Party or to the territory of the Benelux States) shall be the responsibility of the Contracting Party or Parties concerned. 
1.2. State representing the State responsible 
(a) If the State responsible has no diplomatic mission or consular post in a given State, the uniform visa may be issued by the mission or post of the State representing the State responsible. The visa is issued on behalf of the State that is being represented, subject to its prior authorisation, and where necessary, to consultation between the central authorities. If one of the Benelux States has a diplomatic mission or consular post, it shall in priciple automatically represent the other Benelux States, unless the Benelux State concerned is in practice unable to represent the other Benelux States, in which case the latter may call upon another partner State to represent them on visa matters in the third country in question. 
(b) Even if a State has a diplomatic mission or consular post in a third country, it may ask another State having a consular post in that third country to represent it. The uniform visa is issued on behalf of the State that is being represented, subject to its prior authorisation, and where necessary, to consultation between the central authorities. 
(c) When uniform visas are issued pursuant to (a) and (b), the form of representation shall be agreed between the State or States being represented and the State representing that or those State(s), and shall specify: 
- the duration of such representation and the conditions for its termination; 
- and, for the application of point (b), the arrangements for implementing such representation, including the conditions governing the provision of premises by the representing State or the provision of staff by the representing State and the State being represented, and the possible financial contribution of the State being represented to the costs involved in issuing visas incurred by the representing State. 
(d) When uniform visas are issued pursuant to (a) and (b), the representation shall be reflected in the table of representation for the issuing of uniform visas set out in Annex 18. 
(e) The procedure for issuing Schengen visas in the event of representation pursuant to (a) and (b) shall be based on the following principles: 
- The rules on representation shall apply to the processing of applications for uniform airport transit visas, transit visas and short-stay visas issued pursuant to the Schengen Convention and in accordance with the Common Consular Instructions. The representing State is obliged to comply with the provisions of the Common Consular Instructions as quickly as it issues its own visas of the same category and with the same period of validity. 
- Except where expressly provided in bilateral agreements, the rules on representation shall not apply to visas issued for the purpose of paid employment or an activity which requires prior permission from the State in which it is to be carried out. The applicant must contact the accredited consular post of the State where the activity is to be carried out. 
- The Schengen States shall not be obliged to ensure that they are represented for visa purposes in all third States. They may decide that in certain third States visa applications or applications for a particular kind of visa must be made at a permanent consular post or diplomatic mission of the State that is the applicant's main destination. 
- The diplomatic missions and consular posts shall bear full responsibility for assessing the risk of illegal immigration when a visa application is lodged. 
- The represented States shall assume responsibility for asylum applications made by holders of a visa which has been issued by representing States on their behalf and which states that it has been issued in the framework of representation. 
- In exceptional cases, bilateral agreements may stipulate that visa applications from certain categories of aliens are either to be submitted by the representing State to the authorities of the represented State in which the main destination is located or to be forwarded to a permanent consular representation of that State. The categories in question must be laid down in writing (if necessary for each diplomatic mission or consular post). It shall therefore be assumed that the visa has been issued on the authorisation of the represented State pursuant to Article 30(1) of the Schengen Convention. 
- Bilateral agreements may be amended in the course of time in the light of decisions taken at national level concerning asylum applications lodged within a set period of time by holders of visas issued in the framework of representation and other information relevant to the issue of visas. Based on the outcome, it may also be decided to waive the rules on representation for certain diplomatic missions and consular posts (and possibly for certain nationalities). 
- Representation shall apply solely to the issue of visas. Aliens who are unable to apply for a visa because they cannot furnish sufficient proof that they fulfil the relevant conditions must be informed that they can apply for a visa at a permanent consular post or diplomatic mission of the Schengen State in which their main destination lies. 
- The rules on representation may be refined by extension of the consultation network resulting from software development that enables consular posts and diplomatic missions undertaking representation to consult the central authorities of the represented State in a simple fashion. 
- At local level, diplomatic missions or consular posts shall, in the framework of local consular cooperation, ensure that appropriate information on the responsibilities arising from the use of representation pursuant to (a) and (b) is made available to visa applicants. 
2. Visa applications requiring consultation with the national central authority or the authority of one or more other Contracting Parties in accordance with Article 17(2) 
2.1. Consultation with the national central authority 
The diplomatic mission or consular post which examines the application shall seek authorisation from its central authority, consult it or inform it of the decision it plans to take in accordance with the arrangements and time limits laid down by national law and practice. Cases requiring internal consultation are listed in Annex 5A. 
2.2. Consultation with the central authority of one or more Contracting Parties 
The diplomatic mission or the consular post with which an application is lodged shall seek authorisation from its central authority, which, for its part, shall forward the application to the competent central authorities of one or more other Contracting Parties (see part V, 2, 2.3). Until the final list of cases of mutual consultation has been approved by the Executive Committee, the list annexed to these Common Consular Instructions shall apply (see Annex 5B). 
2.3. Consultation procedure in the framework of representation 
(a) When visa applications are lodged by nationals of the countries listed in Annex 5C at a diplomatic mission or consular representation of a Schengen State representing another Schengen State, the represented State shall be consulted. 
(b) The information exchanged in respect of these visa applications shall be the same as that currently exchanged in the framework of the consultation under Annex 5B. A compulsory heading shall, however, be provided on the form for the references to the territory of the represented State. 
(c) The current provisions of the Common Consular Instructions on Visas shall apply to the time limits, their extension and the form of the reply. 
(d) The consultation provided for in Annex 5B shall be undertaken by the represented State. 
3. Visa applications lodged by non-residents 
When an application is lodged with a State which is not the applicant's State of residence and there are doubts concerning the person's intentions (in particular where there is evidence pointing to illegal immigration), the visa shall be issued only after consultation with the diplomatic mission or consular post of the applicant's State of residence and/or its central authority. 
4. Authorisation to issue uniform visas 
Only the diplomatic mission or consular posts of the Contracting Parties shall be entitled to issue uniform visas, except in the cases listed in Annex 6. 
III. RECEIPT OF THE APPLICATION 
1. Visa application forms — number of application forms 
Aliens shall also be required to fill in the uniform visa form. Applications for a uniform visa must be made using the harmonised form a specimen of which is given in Annex 16. 
At least one copy of the application form must be filled in so that it may be used during consultation with the central authorities. The Contracting Parties may, insofar as national administrative procedures so require, request several copies of the application. 
2. Documents to be enclosed 
Aliens shall enclose the following documents with the application: 
(a) a valid travel document to which a visa may be affixed (see Annex 11); 
(b) where appropriate, documents supporting the purpose and the conditions of the planned visit; 
If the information supplied is sufficient to enable the diplomatic mission or consular post to ascertain that the applicant is acting in good faith, the staff responsible for issuing the visas may exempt the applicant from submitting the abovementioned supporting documents. 
3. Guarantees regarding return and means of subsistence 
Aliens must ultimately be able to convince the diplomatic mission or consular post with which they lodge their application that they have adequate means to ensure subsistence and return. 
4. Personal interview with the applicant 
As a general rule, the applicant shall be called on to appear in person in order to explain verbally the reasons for the application, especially where there are doubts concerning the actual purpose of the visit or the applicant's intention to return to the country of departure. 
This requirement may be waived in cases where the applicant is well-known or where the distance from the diplomatic mission or consular post is too great, provided that there is no doubt as to the good faith of the applicant and, in the case of group trips, a reputable and trustworthy body is able to vouch for the good faith of those persons concerned. 
Part VIII.5 contains more detailed rules on visa applications processed by private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour operators and their retailers. 
IV. LEGAL BASIS 
Uniform visas may be issued only once the entry conditions laid down in Articles 15 and 5 of the Convention have been met. These Articles read as follows: 
Article 15 
In principle, the visas referred to in Article 10 may be issued only if an alien fulfils the entry conditions laid down in Article 5(1) (a), (c), (d) and (e). 
Article 5 
1. For stays not exceeding three months, aliens fulfilling the following conditions may be granted entry into the territories of the Contracting Parties: 
(a) that the aliens possess a valid document or documents, as defined by the Executive Committee, authorising them to cross the border; 
(b) that the aliens are in possession of a valid visa if required; 
(c) that the aliens produce, if necessary, documents justifying the purpose and conditions of the intended stay and that they have sufficient means of subsistence, both for the period of the intended stay and for the return to their country of origin or transit to a Third State into which they are certain to be admitted, or are in a position to acquire such means lawfully; 
(d) that the aliens shall not be persons for whom an alert has been issued for the purposes of refusing entry; 
(e) that the aliens shall not be considered to be a threat to public policy, national security or the international relations of any of the Contracting Parties. 
2. An alien who does not fulfil all the above conditions must be refused entry into the territories of the Contracting Parties unless a Contracting Party considers it necessary to derogate from that principle on humanitarian grounds, on grounds of national interest or because of international obligations. In such cases authorisation to enter will be restricted to the territory of the Contracting Party concerned, which must inform the other Contracting Parties accordingly. 
These rules shall not preclude the application of special provisions concerning the right of asylum or of the provisions laid down in Article 18. 
Visas with limited territorial validity may be issued subject to the conditions laid down in Articles 11(2), 14(1) and 16 in conjunction with Article 5(2) (see V.3). 
Article 11(2) 
2. Paragraph 1 shall not preclude a Contracting Party from issuing a new visa, the validity of which is limited to its own territory, within the half-year in question if necessary. 
Article 14(1) 
1. No visa shall be affixed to a travel document if that travel document is not valid for any of the Contracting Parties. If a travel document is only valid for one Contracting Party or for a number of Contracting Parties, the visa to be affixed shall be limited to the Contracting Party or Parties in question. 
Article 16 
If a Contracting Party considers it necessary to derogate on one of the grounds listed in Article 5(2) from the principle laid down in Article 15, by issuing a visa to an alien who does not fulfil all the entry conditions referred to in Article 5(1), the validity of this visa shall be restricted to the territory of that Contracting Party, which must inform the other Contracting Parties accordingly. 
V. EXAMINATION OF APPLICATIONS AND DECISIONS TAKEN 
The diplomatic mission or consular post shall first check the documents submitted (1) and shall then base its decision regarding the visa application on these documents (2): 
Basic criteria for examining applications 
The main issues to be borne in mind when examining visa applications are: the security of the Contracting Parties and the fight against illegal immigration, as well as other aspects relating to international relations. Depending on the country concerned, one of these aspects may take precedence over the other, but at no stage should any of them be lost sight of. 
As far as security is concerned, it is advisable to check that the necessary controls have been carried out: a search of the entry refusal files (alerts for the purpose of refusing entry) in the Schengen Information System and consultation of the central authorities of the countries subject to this procedure. 
The diplomatic mission or consular post shall assume full responsibility in assessing whether there is an immigration risk. The purpose of examining applications is to detect those applicants who are seeking to immigrate to the Member States and set themselves up there, using grounds such as tourism, business, study, work or family visits as a pretext. Therefore, it is necessary to be particularly vigilant when dealing with "risk categories", unemployed persons, those with no regular income, etc. To the same end, fundamental importance attaches to the interview held with the applicant to determine the purpose of the journey. Additional supporting documentation, agreed through local consular cooperation if possible, may also be required. The diplomatic mission or consular post must also draw on local consular cooperation to enhance its capacity to detect false or falsified documents submitted in support of some visa applications. If there is any doubt as to the authenticity of the papers and supporting documents submitted, including doubt as to the veracity of their contents, or over the reliability of statements collected during interview, the diplomatic mission or consular post shall refrain from issuing the visa. 
Conversely, checks shall be reduced where the applicant is known to be a bona fide person, this information having been exchanged through consular cooperation. 
1. Examination of visa applications 
1.1. Verification of the visa application 
- the length of visit requested shall correspond to the purpose of the visit 
- the replies to the questions on the form shall be full and consistent. The form shall include an identity photograph of the visa applicant and shall indicate, as far as possible, the main destination to which he is travelling. 
1.2. Verification of the applicant's identity and verification as to whether an alert has been issued on the applicant in the Schengen Information System (SIS) for the purpose of refusing entry or verification as to whether the applicant poses any other threat (to security) which would constitute grounds for refusal to issue the visa or whether, from an immigration point of view, the applicant poses a risk in that on a previous visit he/she overstayed the authorised length of stay. 
1.3. Verification of the travel document: 
- Verification as to whether the document is in order or not: it should be complete and should not be amended, falsified or counterfeited; 
- Verification of the territorial validity of the travel document: it should be valid for entry into the territory of the Contracting Parties; 
- Verification of the period of validity of the travel document: the period of validity of the travel document should exceed that of the visa by three months (Article 13(2) of the Convention); 
- However, on urgent humanitarian grounds, for reasons of national interest or because of international obligations, visas may, in exceptional cases, be affixed to travel documents the period of validity of which is less than that specified in the previous paragraph (three months), provided that the period of validity exceeds that of the visa and that the guarantee of return is not compromised; 
- Verification of the length of previous stays in the territory of the Contracting Parties. 
1.4. Verification of other documents depending on the application: 
The number and type of supporting documents required depend on the possible risk of illegal immigration and the local situation (for example, the convertibility of the currency) and may vary from one country to another. As regards evaluation of the supporting documents, the diplomatic missions or consular posts of the Contracting Parties may agree on practical arrangements adapted to suit local circumstances. 
The supporting documents shall cover the purpose of the journey, means of transport and return, means of subsistence and accommodation: 
- supporting documents regarding the purpose of the journey shall mean, for example: 
- a letter of invitation, 
- a summons, 
- an organised trip. 
- supporting documents regarding means of transport and return shall mean, for example: 
- a return ticket, 
- currency for petrol or car insurance. 
- supporting documents regarding means of subsistence: 
The following may be accepted as proof of means of subsistence: cash in convertible currency, traveller's cheques, cheque books for a foreign currency account, credit cards or any other means that guarantees funds in hard currency. 
The level of means of subsistence shall be proportionate to the length and purpose of the stay, and to the cost of living in the Schengen State or States to be visited. To this end, reference amounts for the crossing of borders shall be determined each year by the national authorities of the Contracting Parties (see Annex 7) [6]. 
In addition, in support of an application for a short-term or travel visa, applicants must show that they are in possession of adequate and valid individual or group travel insurance to cover any expenses which might arise in connection with repatriation for medical reasons, urgent medical attention and/or emergency hospital treatment. 
Applicants should in principle underwrite insurance in their State of residence. Where this is not possible, they should seek to obtain insurance in any other country. If the host underwrites insurance for the applicant, he should do this in his own place of residence. 
The insurance must be valid throughout the territory of the Member States applying in full the provisions of the Schengen acquis and cover the entire period of the person's stay. The minimum coverage shall be EUR 30000. 
In principle, the proof of this insurance shall be submitted when the visa is issued. 
The diplomatic mission or consular post competent to examine a visa application may decide that this requirement has been met where it is established that an adequate level of insurance may be assumed in the light of the applicant's professional situation. 
Diplomatic missions or consular posts may, on a case by case basis, decide to make an exception from this requirement for holders of diplomatic, official duty and other official passports, or when this protects national interests in the field of foreign policy, development policy or other areas of vital public interest. 
Exceptions from the requirement to produce evidence of travel insurance may also be made when, in the framework of local consular cooperation, it is established that it is impossible for nationals of certain third States to acquire such insurance. 
When assessing whether an insurance is adequate, Member States may ascertain whether claims against the insurance company would be recoverable in a Member State, Switzerland or Liechtenstein. 
- supporting documents regarding accommodation: 
The following documents inter alia may be accepted as proof of accommodation: 
(a) hotel reservation or reservation for a similar establishment. 
(b) documents proving the existence of a lease or a title-deed, in the applicant's name, to a property situated in the country to be visited. 
(c) Where an alien states that he/she shall stay at a person's home or in an institution, the diplomatic missions and consular posts shall verify whether the alien will actually be accommodated there: 
- either by checking with the national authorities, where such checks are necessary; 
- or by requiring that a certificate be presented which vouches for the commitment to accommodate, in the form of a harmonised form filled in by the host/institution and stamped by the competent authority of the Contracting Party, according to the provisions laid down in its national legislation. A model of the form may be adopted by the Executive Committee. 
- or by requiring that a certificate or an official or public document be presented which vouches for the commitment to accommodate, formalised and verified in accordance with the internal law of the Contracting Party concerned. 
The presentation of documents relating to the commitment to accommodate referred to in the previous two paragraphs is not a new condition for the issue of visas. These documents have a practical purpose, aimed at confirming the availability of accommodation and, where appropriate, means of subsistence. If a Contracting Party uses this type of document, it should always specify the identity of the host and of the guest or guests, the address of the accommodation, the length and purpose of the stay, any family ties, and indicate whether the host is residing lawfully in the country. 
After issuing the visa, the diplomatic mission or consular post shall affix its stamp and write the visa number on the document in order to prevent it from being reused. 
These checks are aimed at avoiding any invitations of convenience, fraudulent invitations or invitations from illegal aliens or aliens whose status is insecure. 
Applicants may be exempted from the requirement to provide supporting documents regarding accommodation before applying for a uniform visa if they are able to prove that they have sufficient financial means to cover their subsistence and accommodation costs in the Schengen State or States that they plan to visit. 
- Other documents which may be required 
- proof of place of residence and proof of ties with the country of residence, 
- parental authorisation in the case of minors, 
- proof of the social and professional status of the applicant. 
Where the national laws of the Schengen States require proof of invitations from private individuals or for business trips, sponsorship declarations or proof of accommodation, a harmonised form shall be used. 
1.5. Assessment of the applicant's good faith 
In order to assess the applicant's good faith, the mission or post shall check whether the applicant is recognised as a person of good faith in the framework of local consular cooperation. 
Furthermore, they shall consult the information exchanged as referred to in Chapter VIII, 3, of these Instructions. 
2. Decision-making procedure for visa applications 
2.1. Choice of type of visa and number of entries 
A uniform visa pursuant to Article 11 may be: 
- a travel visa valid for one or more entries, provided that neither the length of a continuous stay nor the total length of successive stays exceeds three months in any half-year, from the date of first entry; 
- a visa valid for one year, entitling a three month stay during any half-year and several entries; this visa may be issued to persons providing the necessary guarantees and persons in whom the Contracting Parties have shown a particular interest. In exceptional cases, a visa valid for more than one year, but for no more than five years, may be issued to certain categories of person for several entries; 
- a transit visa authorising its holder to transit through the territories of the Contracting Parties once, twice or exceptionally several times en route to the territory of a Third State, provided that no transit exceeds five days and provided that the entry of the alien into the territory of the destination Third State is guaranteed and that the route taken normally requires transit through the territories of the Contracting Parties. 
2.2. Administrative responsibility of the intervening authority 
The diplomatic representative or the head of the consular section shall assume, in accordance with their national powers, full responsibility for the practical arrangements for the issue of visas by their missions or posts and shall consult with one another. 
The diplomatic mission or consular post shall take its decision on the basis of all the information available to it and bearing in mind the specific situation of each applicant. 
2.3. Procedure to be followed in cases of prior consultation with the central authorities of the other Contracting Parties 
The Contracting Parties have decided to set up a system for the purpose of carrying out consultation with the central authorities. In the event that the technical system for consultation fails, the following measures may be applied temporarily on a case-by-case basis: 
- Limitation of the number of cases of consultation to those where consultation is deemed essential 
- Use of the local network of embassies and consulates of the Contracting Parties concerned in order to channel consultation 
- Use of the network of embassies of the Contracting Parties located (a) in the country carrying out the consultation, (b) in the country which is to be consulted 
- Use of conventional means of communication between contact points: fax, telephone, etc. 
- Exercise of greater vigilance in the common interest. 
In cases where the applicants come under the categories listed in Annex 5B which are subject to consultation of a central authority — the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or another body — (Article 17(2) of the Convention), uniform visas and long-stay visas valid concurrently as short-stay visas shall be issued according to the procedure outlined below. 
The diplomatic mission or consular post with which an application has been lodged by a person from one of these categories shall in the first instance check, by carrying out a search in the Schengen Information System, whether an alert has been issued on the applicant for the purpose of refusing entry. 
It shall then follow the procedure outlined below: 
(a) Procedure 
The procedure under (b) shall not apply when the visa applicant is the subject of an alert in the Schengen Information System for the purpose of refusing entry. 
(b) Transmission of applications to the national central authority 
The diplomatic mission or consular post with which an application has been lodged by a person from one of the categories subject to consultation shall transmit this application immediately to the central authority in its country. 
- If the central authority decides to refuse an application for which the Contracting Party applied to is responsible, it shall not be necessary to begin or to continue a consultation procedure with the central authorities of the Contracting Parties which asked to be consulted. 
- In the case of an application examined by the representative of the State responsible, the central authority of the Contracting Party with which the application has been lodged shall transmit it to the central authority of the State responsible. If the central authority of the represented State — or the central authority of the representing State, where so provided in the representation agreement — decides to reject the visa application, it shall not be necessary to begin or to continue a consultation procedure with the central authorities of the Contracting Parties which asked to be consulted. 
(c) Information transmitted to the central authority 
As part of consultation with the central authorities, the diplomatic missions or consular posts with which an application has been lodged shall transmit the following information to their central authority: 
1. Diplomatic mission or consular post with which the application has been lodged. 
2. Surname and first names, date and place of birth and, if known, the names of the applicant's parents. 
3. Nationality of the applicant(s) and, if known, any previous nationalities. 
4. Type and number of travel document(s) submitted, their date of issue and date of expiry. 
5. Length and purpose of the intended stay. 
6. Planned dates of travel. 
7. Residence, profession, employer of the visa applicant. 
8. References from the Member States, in particular, any previous applications or visits to the Signatory States. 
9. Border which the applicant intends to cross in order to enter Schengen territory. 
10. Any other names (maiden name, or where appropriate, married name, in order to complete the identification in accordance with the requirements under the national law of the Contracting Parties and the national law of the State of which the applicant is a national). 
11. Any other information deemed necessary by the diplomatic missions or consular posts, concerning, for example, the spouse or minor children accompanying the person concerned, any visas previously issued to the applicant and visa applications for the same destination. 
This information shall be taken from the visa application form, in the order in which it appears on the aforementioned form. 
The above headings shall form the basis for the information to be transmitted in the framework of consultation between central authorities. The Contracting Party carrying out the consultation shall as a rule be responsible for the mode of transmission, on the understanding that the date and time of transmission and its receipt by the recipient central authorities are clearly marked. 
(d) Transmission of applications between central authorities 
The central authority of the Contracting Party whose mission or post has received an application shall consult, in turn, the central authority or authorities of the Contracting Party or Parties who have asked to be consulted. To this end, the authorities designated by the Contracting Parties shall be considered central authorities. 
After carrying out the relevant checks, these authorities shall transmit their assessment of the visa application to the central authority which consulted them. 
(e) Deadline for replies: Extension 
The central authorities consulted shall have a maximum deadline of 7 calendar days for sending a reply to the central authority which asked for the consultation. The initial deadline commences at the date on which the application is transmitted by the central authority which has to carry out the consultation. 
If during the 7 days one of the consulted central authorities asks for the deadline to be extended, this may be increased by 7 days. 
In exceptional cases, the consulted central authority may submit a justified request for an extension of more than 7 days, stating reasons. 
The authorities consulted shall ensure that in urgent cases, the reply is transmitted as quickly as possible. 
Where no reply is received by the end of the initial deadline or, where appropriate, by the end of the extended deadline, the absence of a reply shall be the equivalent of an authorisation and shall mean that there are, as far as the Contracting Party or Parties consulted are concerned, no grounds for objecting to the issue of a visa. 
(f) Decision based on the outcome of the consultation 
Once the initial or extended deadline has expired, the central authority of the Contracting Party with which the application has been lodged may authorise the diplomatic mission or consular post to issue the uniform visa. 
Where there is no clear decision on the part of the central authority, the diplomatic mission or consular post with which the application has been lodged may issue the visa after a period of 14 days has elapsed from the time at which the application was sent by the central authority carrying out the consultation. It is the responsibility of each central authority to inform its missions and posts at the start of each consultation period. 
In cases where the central authority receives a request for an exceptional extension to the deadline, it shall notify the mission or post with which the application has been lodged accordingly: it shall not decide on the application before receiving clear instructions from its central authority. 
(g) Transmission of specific documents 
In exceptional cases, the embassy where the visa application is lodged may, at the request of the consular mission of the consulted State, transmit the visa application form (with a space for a photograph) pursuant to Article 17 of the Schengen Convention. 
This procedure shall apply only in cities where there are diplomatic missions or consular posts of both the consulting State and consulted State and only in respect of the nationalities listed in Annex 5B. 
Under no circumstances may the reply or the request to extend the deadline for consultation be transmitted locally, except in the case of consultation at local level in accordance with the current provisions of Annex 5B of the Common Consular Instructions on Visas. In principle, the consultation network shall be used for exchanges between the central authorities. 
2.4. Refusal to examine an application, to issue a visa 
The procedure and the possible channels of appeal in cases where the diplomatic mission or consular post of a Contracting Party refuses to examine an application or issue a visa are governed by the law of that Contracting Party. 
If a visa is refused and national law provides for the grounds for such a refusal to be given, this must be done on the basis of the following text: 
Your request for a visa has been refused pursuant to Article 15 in conjunction with Article 5 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 19 June 1990 because you do not satisfy the conditions under a, c, d, e, (indicate relevant condition(s)) of Article 5(1) of the said Convention, which stipulates … (state relevant condition(s)). 
If necessary, the above grounds may be supplemented with more detailed information or contain other information in accordance with the requirements in this area laid down in the national law of the Schengen States. 
When a diplomatic or consular mission which is representing another Schengen State is forced to discontinue its examination of a visa application, the applicant should be notified thereof and informed that he/she may go to the nearest diplomatic or consular mission of the State competent to examine his application. 
3. Visas with limited territorial validity 
A visa the validity of which is limited to the national territory of one or several Contracting Parties may be issued: 
(1) in cases where a diplomatic mission or consular post considers it necessary to derogate from the principle laid down in Article 15 of the Convention (Article 16) on one of the grounds listed in Article 5(2) (on humanitarian grounds, for reasons of national interest or because of international obligations); 
(2) in cases provided for in Article 14 of the Convention, according to which: 
"1. No visa may be affixed to a travel document if that travel document is not valid for any of the Contracting Parties. If a travel document is only valid for one Contracting Party or for a number of Contracting Parties, the visa to be affixed shall be limited to the Contracting Party or Parties in question. 
2. If a travel document is not recognised as valid by one or more of the Contracting Parties, an authorisation may be issued in place of a visa." 
(3) in cases where, on account of urgency, (on humanitarian grounds, for reasons of national interest or because of international obligations), a mission or post does not consult the central authorities or where this procedure gives rise to objections; 
(4) in cases where a mission or post issues, out of necessity, a new visa for a stay during the same half-year to an applicant who, over a six-month period, has already used a visa with a validity of three months. 
The validity is limited to the territory of one Contracting Party, the Benelux or two Benelux States for cases 1, 3 and 4 above, and to the territory of one or several Contracting Parties, the Benelux or two Benelux States for case 2. 
The missions or posts of the other Contracting Parties must be informed of cases where these visas are issued. 
VI. HOW TO FILL IN VISA STICKERS 
Annexes 8 and 13 contain the following: 8 — a description of the sticker's security features; 13 — examples of specimen visa stickers that have already been filled in. 
1. Common entries section (Section 8) 
1.1. "VALID FOR" heading 
This heading indicates the territory in which the visa holder is entitled to travel. 
This heading may be completed in one of the following four ways only: 
(a) Schengen States; 
(b) Schengen State or Schengen States to whose territory the validity of the visa is limited (in this case the following abbreviations are used: A for Austria, F for France, D for Germany, E for Spain, GR for Greece, P for Portugal, I for Italy, L for Luxembourg, NL for the Netherlands, B for Belgium); 
(c) Benelux; 
(d) Schengen State (using the abbreviations in (b)) which issued the national long-stay visa + Schengen States 
- When the sticker is used to issue the uniform visa pursuant to Articles 10 and 11 of the Convention, or to issue a visa whose validity is not limited to the territory of the Contracting Party which issued the visa, the heading "valid for" is filled in using the words "Schengen States", in the language of the Contracting Party which issued the visa. 
- When the sticker is used to issue visas which restrict entry, stay and exit to just one territory, this heading shall be filled in, in the national language, with the name of the Contracting Party to which the visa holder's entry, stay and exit are limited. 
- When the sticker is used to issue a national long-stay visa valid concurrently as a uniform short-stay visa for a maximum period of three months from its initial date of validity, this heading is to be filled in with the Member State which issued the national long-stay visa, followed by "Schengen States". 
- Pursuant to Article 14 of the Convention, limited territorial validity may cover the territory of several Member States; in that case, according to the Member State codes to be entered under this heading, the following options are available: 
(a) entry of the codes for the Member States concerned; 
(b) entry of the words "Schengen States" in the language of the issuing Member State, followed in brackets by the minus sign and the codes of the Member States for the territories of which the visa is not valid. 
- Limited territorial validity may not apply to just part of the territory of a Contracting Party. 
1.2. "FROM … TO" heading 
This heading indicates the period of the holder's stay as authorised by the visa. 
The date from which the visa holder may enter the territory for which the visa is valid is written as below, following the word "FROM": 
- the day is written using two digits, the first of which is a zero if the day in question is a single digit. 
- horizontal dash. 
- the month is written using two digits, the first of which is a zero if the month in question is a single digit. 
- horizontal dash. 
- the year is written using two digits, which correspond with the last two digits of the year. 
- For example: 15-04-94 = 15 April 1994. 
The date of the last day of the period of the visa holder's authorised stay is entered after the word "TO". The visa holder must have left the territory for which the visa is valid by midnight on this date. 
This date is written in the same way as the first date above. 
1.3. "NUMBER OF ENTRIES" heading 
This heading shows the number of times the visa holder may enter the territory for which the visa is valid; in other words, it refers to the number of periods of stay which may be spread over the entire period of validity, see 1.4. 
The number of entries may be one, two or more. This number is written to the right hand-side of the pre-printed part, using "01", "02" or the abbreviation "MULT", where the visa authorises more than two entries. 
For a transit visa, only one or two entries may be authorised ("01" or "02" is entered). More than two entries ("MULT") shall be authorised only in exceptional cases. 
The visa shall expire when the total number of exits made by the holder equals the number of authorised entries, even if the holder has not used up the number of days authorised by the visa. 
1.4. "DURATION OF VISIT … DAYS" heading 
This heading indicates the number of days during which the holder may stay in the territory for which the visa is valid [7]. This stay may be continuous or, depending on the number of days authorised, spread over several periods between the dates mentioned under 1.2, bearing in mind the number of entries authorised under 1.3. 
The number of days authorised is written in the blank space between "DURATION OF VISIT" and "DAYS", in the form of two digits, the first of which is a zero if the number of days is less than 10. 
The maximum number of days that can be entered under this heading is 90 in any half-year. 
1.5. "ISSUED IN … ON …" heading 
This heading gives the name of the town in which the diplomatic mission or consular post which is issuing the visa is situated; in the language of the Contracting Party issuing the visa this name is entered between "IN" and "ON". The date of issue is indicated after "ON". 
The date of issue is written in the same way as the date referred to in 1.2. 
The authority which issued the visa may be identified by the reference which appears in the stamp affixed to section 4. 
1.6. "PASSPORT NUMBER" heading 
This heading indicates the number of the passport to which the visa sticker is affixed. This number shall be followed by a reference to the children and the spouse accompanying the holder if their names are entered in the passport (a letter "X" for children preceded by the number thereof (for example 3X = three children) and a letter "Y" for the spouse). 
Where, because the holder's travel document is not recognised, the uniform format for forms is used for the visa, the issuing diplomatic mission or consular post may opt to use the same form to extend the validity of the visa to the holder's spouse and to accompanying minors dependent on the holder of the form who accompany the holder or to issue separate forms for the holder, his spouse and each person dependent on him, affixing the corresponding visa on each form separately. 
The passport number is the series number which is pre-printed or perforated on all or almost all of the pages of the passport. 
The number to be entered under this heading, in the case of a visa to be affixed to the uniform format form, is not the passport number but the same typographical number as appears on the form, made up of six digits, which may be accompanied by the letter or letters assigned to the Member State or group of Member States which issued the visa. 
1.7. "TYPE OF VISA" heading 
In order to facilitate matters for the control authorities, this heading shall specify the type of visa using the letters A, B, C and D as follows: 
A : airport transit visa 
B : transit visa 
C : short-stay visa 
D : long-stay national visa 
D + C : national long-stay visa valid concurrently as a short-stay visa 
For visas with limited territorial validity and group visas, the letters A, B or C shall be used as required. 
1.8. "SURNAME AND FIRST NAME" heading 
The first word in the "surname" box followed by the first word in the "first name" box of the visa holder's passport or travel document shall be written in that order. The diplomatic mission or consular post shall verify that the name and first name which appear in the passport or travel document and which are to be entered under this heading and in the section to be electronically scanned are the same as those appearing in the visa application. 
2. National entries section ("COMMENTS"). Section 9 
Contrary to section 8 (joint and obligatory entries), this section is reserved for any comments relating to national provisions. Although the Contracting Parties shall be free to include any comments which they deem relevant, they shall be obliged to inform their partners thereof for the purpose of interpretation (see Annex 9). 
3. Section for the photograph 
The visa-holder's photograph, in colour, shall be integrated in the space reserved for that purpose as shown in Annex 8. The following rules shall be observed with respect to the photograph to be integrated into the visa sticker. 
The size of the head from chin to crown shall be between 70 % and 80 % of the vertical dimension of the surface of the photograph. 
The minimum resolution requirements shall be: 
- 300 pixels per inch (ppi), uncompressed, for scanning, 
- 720 dots per inch (dpi) for colour printing of photos. 
In the absence of a photograph, it shall be obligatory to enter the words "valid without photograph" in this section in two or three languages (the language of the Member State issuing the visa, English and French). These words shall in principle be entered using a printer and, exceptionally, a specific stamp, in which case the stamp shall also cover part of the rotogravure section whose left or right-hand side delimits the space for integrating the photograph. 
4. Section to be electronically scanned (Section 5) 
Both the format of the visa sticker and that of the electronically-scanned section were adopted by the ICAO on the basis of a proposal put forward by the Schengen States. This section is made up of two lines of 36 characters (OCR B-10 cpi). Annex 10 explains how this section is to be filled in. 
5. Other aspects relating to the issue of visas 
5.1. Signing visas 
In cases where the law or practice of a Contracting Party requires a hand-written signature, the sticker affixed to the page of the passport shall be signed by the competent official. 
The signature is placed at the right-hand side of the heading "COMMENTS"; part of the signature should extend onto the page of the passport or the travel document, but it must not cover the section to be electronically scanned. 
5.2. Invalidating completed visa stickers 
No changes shall be made to the visa sticker. If an error is made when the visa is issued, the sticker shall be invalidated. 
- If the error is detected on a sticker which has not yet been affixed to the passport, the sticker shall be destroyed or cut diagonally in half. 
- If the error is detected after the sticker has been affixed to the passport, a red cross shall be drawn on the sticker and a new sticker affixed. 
5.3. Affixing visa stickers to passports 
The sticker shall be filled in before being affixed to the passport. The stamp and the signature shall be placed on the sticker once it has been affixed to the passport or travel document. 
Once the visa sticker has been correctly filled in, it shall be affixed to the first page of the passport that contains no entries or stamps — other than the identification stamp of the application. Passports which do not have space free for affixing the sticker, passports which have expired and passports which do not authorise exit from the territory before the visa expires, or the alien's return to his/her country of origin or entry into a third country (see Article 13 of the Convention), shall be refused. 
5.4. Passports and travel documents to which uniform visas may be affixed 
The criteria for deciding which travel documents may bear a visa in accordance with the provision of Article 17(3) (a) of the Convention are listed in Annex 11. 
Under Article 14, no visa may be affixed to a travel document if that travel document is not valid for any of the Contracting Parties. If a travel document is valid only for one Contracting Party or for a number of Contracting Parties, the visa to be affixed shall be limited to the Contracting Party or Parties in question. 
If the travel document is not recognised as valid by one or more Member States, the visa shall have only limited territorial validity. The diplomatic mission or consular post of a Member State must use the uniform format form to affix a visa issued to holders of a travel document not recognised by the Member State that issues the form. Such a visa shall have only limited territorial validity. 
5.5. Stamp of the issuing diplomatic mission or consular post 
The stamp of the diplomatic mission or consular post issuing the visa shall be affixed in the "COMMENTS" section, with special care to ensure that it does not prevent data from being read, and shall extend beyond the sticker on to the page of the passport or travel document. Only in cases where it is necessary to dispense with the completion of the section to be electronically scanned may the stamp be placed in this section to render it unusable. The size and content of the stamp and the ink to be used shall be determined by the national provisions of the Member State. 
To prevent re-use of a visa sticker affixed to a uniform format form, the seal of the issuing consular office shall be stamped to the right, straddling the sticker and the form, in such a way as neither to impede reading of the headings and completion data nor to enter the electronic scanning area if completed. 
VII. ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION 
1. Organisation of visa sections 
Each Contracting Party shall be responsible for organising its visa sections. 
The heads of missions or posts shall ensure that the section responsible for issuing visas is organised in such a way as to avoid any kind of negligent behaviour that could facilitate theft and falsifications. 
- The staff responsible for issuing visas shall in no way be exposed to local pressure. 
- In order to prevent the formation of "habits" which could lead to a decline in the level of vigilance, officers responsible shall be rotated on a regular basis. 
- The storage and use of visa stickers shall be the subject of security measures similar to those applied to other documents which require protection. 
2. Filing 
Each Contracting Party shall be responsible for filing visa applications and in cases where visas are subject to central consultation, photographs of applicants. 
Visa applications shall be kept for at least one year where the visa has been issued and at least five years where the visa has been refused. 
In order to make it easier to locate an application, the file and archive references shall be mentioned during consultation and in replies to consultation. 
3. Visa registers 
Each Contracting Party shall register visas which have been issued in accordance with national practice. Cancelled visa stickers shall be registered as such. 
4. Fees to be charged corresponding to the administrative costs of processing visa applications 
The fees to be charged corresponding to the administrative costs of processing the visa application are listed in Annex 12. 
However, no fees are to be charged for administrative costs for visa applications lodged by nationals of third countries who are members of the family of a Union citizen or of a national of a State party to the EEA Agreement, and who are exercising their right to free movement. 
VIII. CONSULAR COOPERATION AT LOCAL LEVEL 
1. Framework of consular cooperation at local level 
In general, consular cooperation in situ will concern the assessment of immigration risks. It shall be aimed mainly at determining common criteria for examining files, exchanging information on the use of false documents, on possible illegal immigration routes and on refusing visas where applications are manifestly ill-founded or fraudulent. It should also permit the exchange of information on bona-fide applicants and the joint finalisation of information for the public on the conditions governing Schengen visa applications. 
Consular cooperation shall also take account of the local administrative situation and socio-economic structure. 
The missions and posts shall organise meetings on a regular basis depending on circumstances and as often as they deem suitable: they shall submit reports on these meetings to the central authorities. At the request of the Presidency they shall submit a general half-yearly report. 
2. How to avoid multiple applications or applications which are lodged after a recent refusal to issue 
The exchange of information between missions and posts and the identification of applications by means of a stamp or otherwise are aimed at preventing the same person from presenting multiple or successive visa applications, either whilst an application is being examined, or after an application has been refused, to the same mission or post or to a different mission or post. 
Without prejudice to the consultation which may take place between the missions and posts and the exchanges of information which they may undertake, the mission or post with which an application is lodged shall affix a stamp to each applicant's passport stating "Visa applied for on … at …". The space following "on" shall be filled in with six digits (two for the day, two for the month and two for the year); the second space shall be reserved for the diplomatic mission or consular post concerned. The code for the visa that has been applied for must be added. 
The mission or post which receives the application shall decide whether or not to affix a stamp to diplomatic and service passports. 
The stamp may also be affixed in the case of applications for long-stay visas. 
When a Schengen State is representing another Schengen State, the stamp shall show, after the code of the type of visa requested, the indication "R" followed by the code of the represented State. 
Where the visa is issued, the sticker shall, where possible, be affixed on the identification stamp. 
In exceptional cases where it is manifestly impracticable to affix a stamp, the mission or post of the Presidency in office shall inform the competent Schengen group and submit for its approval an alternative proposal, for instance the exchange of photocopies of passports or lists of rejected visa applications giving grounds for the refusal. 
The heads of the diplomatic missions or posts shall decide, either at the initiative of the Presidency or at their own initiative, whether alternative or additional preventive measures are necessary. 
3. Assessment of the applicant's good faith 
In order to facilitate assessment of the applicant's good faith, diplomatic missions or consular posts may, in accordance with national legislation, exchange information on the basis of arrangements concluded at local level in the framework of their cooperation pursuant to point 1 of this chapter. 
Information on the following may be exchanged from time to time: persons whose applications have been refused because stolen, lost or falsified documents have been used, or because the exit date on the previous visa was not observed or because there is a risk to security and, in particular, there is reason to believe that an attempt is being made to immigrate illegally to the territory of the Contracting Parties. 
The information which is exchanged and produced jointly shall serve as a working instrument for assessing visa applications. It shall not, however, replace the actual examination of the visa application, nor the search in the Schengen Information System, nor consultation with the requesting central authorities. 
4. Exchange of statistics 
4.1. Statistics on short-stay visas, transit visas and airport transit visas that have been issued and on applications for such visas that have been formally rejected shall be exchanged every three months. 
4.2. Notwithstanding the obligations laid down in Article 16 of the Schengen Convention, which are clearly formulated in Annex 14 to the Common Consular Instructions and which require the Schengen States to forward within 72 hours details concerning the issue of visas with limited territorial validity, the diplomatic missions and consular representations of the Schengen States shall be instructed to exchange their statistics on visas with limited territorial validity issued the previous month and transmit them to their respective central authorities. 
5. Visa applications processed by private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour operators 
The basic rule for visa applications is that there should be the possibility of a personal interview. However, this may be dispensed in so far as, where there is no reasonable doubt as to the good faith of the applicant, the purpose of the journey or the applicant's actual intention of returning to the country of origin, a reputable and solvent entity, organising trips for groups, supplies the diplomatic mission or consular post with the necessary documentation and vouches, with reasonable reliability, for the applicant's good faith, the purpose of the journey and the applicant's actual intention of returning (see point III.4). 
It is both common and useful, particularly in countries with a large surface area, for private administrative agencies, travel agencies, and tour operators and their retailers to act as authorised intermediaries of the applicant. These commercial intermediaries are not uniform in nature as they do not enter into the same degree of commitment in relation to clients entrusting them with the processing of a visa; so that, the degree of solvency and reliability expected of them will, in principle, be directly proportional to their degree of involvement in the overall planning of the journey, accommodation, medical and travel insurance, and their responsibility for the client's return to the country of origin. 
5.1. Types of intermediary 
(a) The simplest type of intermediary are private administrative agencies, where the assistance given to the client involves only the supply of identity and other supporting documents on the client's behalf. 
(b) A second type of commercial entity is that of transport agencies or local travel agencies, in some cases linked to air carriers, whether or not these are flag carriers, involved in scheduled or charter passenger transport. Their assistance to the client includes the supply of supporting documents as well as, where appropriate, ticket sales and hotel reservations. 
(c) A third type of intermediary is constituted by tour organisers or operators, being natural or legal persons organising package tours on a non-occasional basis (preparation of travel documentation, transport, accommodation, other tourist services not ancillary to these elements, medical and travel insurance, internal transfers, etc.) which sell such package tours, or offer them for sale directly or via a retailer or travel agency contractually linked to the tour operator. 
For the tour operator and the agency retailing the package trip, the visa applicant is no more than the consumer of the arranged trip, with the offer to process the visa application being part of the arrangement. This third, complex type of intermediary service comprises several phases and facets which can be subject to objective monitoring: business documentation, management, the actual completion and destination of the trip, accommodation and scheduled group entries and exits. 
5.2 Harmonisation of cooperation with private administrative agencies, travel agencies, tour operators and their retailers 
(a) All diplomatic missions and consular posts located in the same city should endeavour to achieve harmonised application at local level of the guidelines set out below, based on the type of intermediary role performed by the agencies concerned. Although it is for each diplomatic mission or consular post to decide whether or not to work with agencies, they must retain the option of withdrawing accreditation at any time if experience and the interests of a common visa policy so dictate. If a diplomatic mission or consular post decides to work with an agency, it must adhere to the working practices and procedures set out in this section. 
- The consular posts of the Member States must be particularly vigilant and will cooperate closely in the evaluation and exceptional accreditation of private administrative agencies. The processing of their visa applications will be subject to meticulous examination, with checks being conducted in every case on the supporting documents of the visa holder and on those relating to the licence and entry in the commercial register of the private agency. 
- For the evaluation of visa applications lodged by transport agencies or local travel agencies, particular attention must be paid to the circumstances of the applicant and the case-by-case verification of the supporting documents. The consular posts must cooperate closely, reinforcing their respective mechanisms for detecting irregularities in the agencies and in the carriers themselves, and, in support of those mechanisms, irregularities committed by agencies must be notified at the level of local and regional consular cooperation. 
- The criteria governing the accreditation of travel agencies (tour operators and retailers) will, inter alia, take into account: the current licence, the commercial register, the company statutes, contracts with the banks which they use, up-to-date contracts with Community recipients of tourism services, which must include all the elements of the package trip (accommodation and tour package services), contracts with airlines, which must include outward and guaranteed, fixed return journeys, as well as the required medical and travel insurance. Visa applications lodged by these travel agencies must be carefully scrutinised. 
(b) In the context of local consular cooperation, diplomatic missions and consular posts will also endeavour to harmonise working practices and procedures as well as the criteria for monitoring the proper functioning of private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour organisers (tour operators and retailers). Such monitoring must at least comprise checks at any time on accreditation documentation, spot checks involving personal or telephone interviews with applicants, verification of trips and accommodation, and, wherever possible, verification of the documents relating to group return. 
(c) There must be an intensive exchange of relevant information on the operation of private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour organisers (tour operators and retailers): notification of irregularities detected, regular exchanges concerning refused visas, communication of detected forms of travel document fraud and failure to effect scheduled trips. Cooperation with private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour organisers (tour operators and retailers) must be discussed at the regular meetings organised within the framework of common consular cooperation. 
(d) At the level of local consular cooperation, lists must be exchanged of private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour organisers (tour operators and retailers) to which accreditation has been given by each diplomatic mission or consular post or from which accreditation has been withdrawn, together with the reasons for any such withdrawal. 
(e) Private administrative agencies, travel agencies and tour organisers (tour operators and retailers) must submit to the diplomatic missions and consular posts to which they are accredited the names of one or two staff authorised as intermediaries to lodge visa applications. 
[1] Pursuant to Article 138 of the Convention, these provisions shall only apply to the European territory of the French Republic and the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
[2] OJ L 64, 7.3.2003, p. 1. 
[3] In exceptional cases, short-stay or transit visas may be issued at the border, pursuant to the conditions defined in part II, point 5 of the Common Manual on External Borders. 
[4] OJ L 99, 17.4.2003, p. 8. 
[5] OJ L 99, 17.4.2003, p. 15. 
[6] These reference amounts shall be determined according to the arrangements laid down in part I of the Common Manual on External Borders. 
[7] In the case of transit visas, the length of transit may not exceed 5 days. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 1 
I. Joint list of third countries whose citizens are required to have a visa by Member States bound by Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 [1], as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2414/2001 [2] and Regulation (EC) No 453/2003 [3]. 
II. Joint list of third countries whose citizens are exempted from the visa requirement by Member States bound by Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2414/2001 and Regulation (EC) No 453/2003. 
I. Joint list of third countries whose citizens are required to have a visa by Member States bound by Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2414/02001 and Regulation (EC) No 453/2003 
1. States 
AFGHANISTAN 
ALBANIA 
ALGERIA 
ANGOLA 
ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 
ARMENIA 
AZERBAIJAN 
BAHAMAS 
BAHRAIN 
BANGLADESH 
BARBADOS 
BELARUS 
BELIZE 
BENIN 
BHUTAN 
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 
BOTSWANA 
BURKINA FASO 
BURMA/MYANMAR 
BURUNDI 
CAMBODIA 
CAMEROON 
CAPE VERDE 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
CHAD 
CHINA 
COLOMBIA 
COMOROS 
CONGO 
COTE D'IVOIRE 
CUBA 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
DJIBOUTI 
DOMINICA 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
ECUADOR 
EGYPT 
EQUATORIAL GUINEA 
ERITREA 
ETHIOPIA 
FIJI 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 
GABON 
GAMBIA 
GEORGIA 
GHANA 
GRENADA 
GUINEA 
GUINEA-BISSAU 
GUYANA 
HAITI 
INDIA 
INDONESIA 
IRAN 
IRAQ 
JAMAICA 
JORDAN 
KAZAKHSTAN 
KENYA 
KIRIBATI 
KUWAIT 
KYRGYZSTAN 
LAOS 
LEBANON 
LESOTHO 
LIBERIA 
LIBYA 
MADAGASCAR 
MALAWI 
MALDIVES 
MALI 
MARSHALL ISLANDS 
MAURITANIA 
MAURITIUS 
MICRONESIA 
MOLDOVA 
MONGOLIA 
MOROCCO 
MOZAMBIQUE 
NAMIBIA 
NAURU 
NEPAL 
NIGER 
NIGERIA 
NORTH KOREA 
NORTHERN MARIANAS (ISLANDS) 
OMAN 
PAKISTAN 
PALAU 
PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
PERU 
PHILIPPINES 
QATAR 
RUSSIA 
RWANDA 
SAMOA 
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 
SAUDI ARABIA 
SENEGAL 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
SEYCHELLES 
SIERRA LEONE 
SOLOMON ISLANDS 
SOMALIA 
SOUTH AFRICA 
SRI LANKA 
ST KITTS AND NEVIS 
ST LUCIA 
ST VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 
SUDAN 
SURINAME 
SWAZILAND 
SYRIA 
TAJIKISTAN 
TANZANIA 
THAILAND 
TIMOR-LESTE 
TOGO 
TONGA 
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 
TUNISIA 
TURKEY 
TURKMENISTAN 
TUVALU 
UGANDA 
UKRAINE 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
UZBEKISTAN 
VANUATU 
VIETNAM 
YEMEN 
ZAMBIA 
ZIMBABWE 
2. Entities and territorial authorities not recognised as States by at least one Member State 
TAIWAN 
PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 
II. Joint list of third countries whose citizens are exempted from the visa requirement by Member States bound by Regulation (EC) No 539/2001, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2414/02001 and Regulation (EC) No 453/2003 
1. States 
ANDORRA 
ARGENTINA 
AUSTRALIA 
BOLIVIA 
BRAZIL 
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 
BULGARIA 
CANADA 
CHILE 
COSTA RICA 
CROATIA 
EL SALVADOR 
GUATEMALA 
HOLY SEE (STATE OF THE VATICAN) 
HONDURAS 
ISRAEL 
JAPAN 
MALAYSIA 
MEXICO 
MONACO 
NEW ZEALAND 
NICARAGUA 
PANAMA 
PARAGUAY 
ROMANIA 
SAN MARINO 
SINGAPORE 
SOUTH KOREA 
UNITED STATES 
URUGUAY 
VENEZUELA 
2. Special Administrative Regions of the People's Republic of China 
HONG KONG S.A.R. [4] 
MACAO S.A.R. [5] 
[1] OJ L 81, 21.3.2001, p. 1-7. 
[2] OJ L 327, 12.12.2001, p. 1-2. 
[3] OJ L 69, 13.3.2003, p. 10-11. 
[4] The visa exemption applies only to holders of a "Hong Kong Special Administrative Region" passport. 
[5] The visa exemption applies only to holders of a "Região Administrativa Especial de Macau" passport. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 2 
Regulations governing the movement of holders of diplomatic, official and service passports and holders of laissez-passers issued by certain International Intergovernmental Organisations to their officials 
I. Regulations governing movements at external borders 
1. Movements of holders of diplomatic, official and service passports are not governed by the common list of visa requirements. The Contracting States undertake, however, to keep their partners informed in advance of any changes that they intend to make to the regulations governing the movements of holders of the abovementioned passports and to take into account the interests of their partners. 
2. Given the aim of increased flexibility in the run-up to harmonisation of the rules applied to holders of the abovementioned passports, a schedule of countries whose nationals are not subject to a visa requirement when they hold the abovementioned passports, although this visa requirement applies to ordinary passport holders of the same nationality, is annexed to the Common Consular Instructions for information purposes. A schedule of States to which the obverse applies shall also be drawn up if necessary. The Executive Committee shall assume responsibility for updating these schedules. 
3. The regulations governing movements mentioned in this document shall not apply to holders of ordinary passports travelling on public business nor to holders of service, official or special passports, etc., where issue by third countries does not conform to the international practice applied by the Schengen States. Accordingly, the Executive Committee, acting on a proposal from a Group of Experts, could draw up a schedule of passports other than ordinary passports, to holders of which the Schengen States do not plan to accord preferential treatment. 
4. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 18 of the Schengen Convention, persons to whom a visa is issued to enable them to reach the territory of the Schengen State for the purpose of their accreditation may at least transit through the other States on their way to the State which issued the visa. 
5. Persons who have already been accredited by a diplomatic or consular representation and members of their families who hold an identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may cross the external border of the Schengen area on production of the said identity card, and, where necessary, the travel document. 
6. In general, the holders of diplomatic, official or service passports, even though they remain subject to a visa requirement, where such a requirement exists, do not have to prove that they have sufficient means of subsistence at their disposal. However, if they are travelling in a personal capacity, they may, where necessary, be asked to produce the same supporting documents that are required from ordinary passport holders applying for visas. 
7. A Note Verbale from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or from a diplomatic mission (if the visa application is lodged in a third country) should accompany each application for a visa for a diplomatic, official or service passport when the applicant is on mission. A Note Verbale may also be requested where the journey is for private purposes. 
8.1. The arrangement for prior consultation with the central authorities of the other Contracting States shall apply to requests for visas made by holders of diplomatic, official and service passports. Prior consultation shall not involve any State which has concluded an agreement removing the visa requirement for holders of diplomatic and/or service passports with the country whose nationals are concerned by the consultation (in the cases contained in Annex 5 to these Instructions). 
Should one of the Contracting States raise objections, the Schengen State which is to decide on the application for a visa can issue a visa with limited territorial validity. 
8.2. The Schengen States undertake not to conclude at a future date, without the prior agreement of the other Member States, agreements on the lifting of visa requirements for holders of diplomatic, official or service passports with States whose nationals are subject to prior consultation for a visa to be issued by another Schengen State. 
8.3. If the visa in question is to be issued for accrediting an alien who is the subject of an alert for the purpose of refusing entry and the arrangement for prior consultation applies, the consultation should be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 25 of the Schengen Convention. 
9. If a Contracting State invokes the exceptions provided for under Article 5(2) of the Schengen Convention, entry granted to holders of diplomatic, official or service passports will also be limited to the national territory of the State in question, which should inform the other Member States accordingly. 
II. Regulations governing movements at internal borders 
In general, the arrangement under Articles 19 et seq. shall apply, except for the issue of a visa with limited territorial validity. 
The holders of diplomatic, official and service passports may move within the territory of the Contracting States for three months from the date of entry (if they are not subject to the visa requirements) or for the period provided for by the visa. 
Persons accredited by a diplomatic or consular representation and members of their families who hold the card issued by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs may move within the territory of the Contracting States for a maximum period of three months upon production of this card and, if required, the travel document. 
III. Regulations governing movements outlined in this document shall apply to laissez-passers issued by the Intergovernmental International Organisations to which all the Schengen States belong to officials of those organisations who, pursuant to the Treaties establishing those Organisations, are exempted from registering with the Immigration Office and from holding a residence permit (see Annex 5 to the Common Manual). 
Regulations governing movement of holders of diplomatic, official and service passports 
Schedule A 
Countries whose nationals are NOT subject to a visa requirement in one or more Schengen States when they are holders of diplomatic, official or service passports, but who are subject to this requirement when they are holders of ordinary passports 
DS : Holders of diplomatic and service passports are exempt from visa requirements. 
D : Holders of diplomatic passports are exempt from visa requirements. 
| BNL | CZ | DK | DE | EE | EL | ES | FR | IT | CY | LV | LT | HU | MT | AT | PL | PT | SI | SK | FI | SE | IS | NO | 
Albania | | | | | | DS | | | D | | | | DS | D | | DS | | DS | DS | | | | | 
Algeria | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | D | | | | | | DS | | | | | 
Angola | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | 
Antigua and Barbuda | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Armenia | | | | | | | | | | | DS | D | DS | | | D | | | | | | | | 
Azerbaijan | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bahamas | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | 
Barbados | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | 
Belarus | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | D | | | | | | | | 
Benin | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | 
Bosnia and Herzegovina | | | | | | D | | | | | | | DS | | D | D | | DS | | | | | | 
Botswana | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Burkina Faso | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cambodia | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cape Verde | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | 
Chad | D | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
People's Republic of China | | | | | | | | | | DS | | DS | DS | | | DS | | DS | | | | | | 
Colombia | | DS | | DS | | | DS | | DS | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Côte d'Ivoire | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | 
Cuba | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | DS | | | | | DS | | | | | | 
Dominica | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Dominican Republic | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ecuador | DS | | | | | | DS | DS | DS | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | 
Egypt | | DS | | | | | | | DS | DS | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | 
Fiji | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia | | | | D | | DS | DS | D | DS | | | | DS | | D | | | DS | DS | | DS | | DS | 
Gabon | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Gambia | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ghana | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Guyana | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Georgia | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
India | | | DS | D | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Iran | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | D | | | D | | | | | | | | 
Jamaica | DS | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | 
Kazakhstan | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kenya | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kuwait | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kyrgyzstan | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Laos | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | DS | | | | | | | | 
Lesotho | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Malawi | DS | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Maldives | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | 
Morocco | DS | DS | | D | | DS | D | D | DS | | | | DS | | DS | DS | DS | DS | DS | | | | DS | 
Mauritania | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Moldova | | | | | | | | | | DS | | D | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Mongolia | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Mozambique | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | 
Namibia | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Niger | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Pakistan | DS | DS | DS | D | | D | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | DS | DS | | DS | DS | 
Peru | DS | DS | | D | | DS | DS | DS | DS | | | | DS | | DS | DS | | DS | D | DS | | | | 
Philippines | | DS | DS | DS | | DS | DS | | DS | | | | DS | | DS | DS | | DS | | DS | DS | | DS | 
Russian Federation | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | DS | | | D | | | | | | | | 
Samoa | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
São Tomé and Príncipe | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | 
Senegal | D | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | 
Serbia and Montenegro | | | | | | DS | | | DS | | | | DS | | | | | DS | DS | | | | | 
Seychelles | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | D | | | | | | | | | 
South Africa | | DS | | D | | DS | | | | | | | DS | | DS | DS | DS | DS | | | | DS | DS | 
Swaziland | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tajikistan | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Thailand | DS | DS | DS | DS | | | | | DS | | | | DS | | DS | DS | | DS | | DS | DS | | DS | 
Togo | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Trinidad and Tobago | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | 
Tunisia | DS | DS | D | D | | DS | D | D | DS | | | | DS | | DS | DS | DS | DS | | D | D | | D | 
Turkey | DS | DS | DS | DS | D | DS | DS | DS | DS | | D | DS | DS | | DS | DS | D | DS | DS | DS | DS | DS | DS | 
Turkmenistan | | | | | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Uganda | | | | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ukraine | | | | | D | | | | | DS | D | DS | DS | | | D | | | | | | | | 
Uzbekistan | | | | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | 
Vietnam | | D | | | | | | D | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | 
Yemen | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | | 
Zimbabwe | | | | | | DS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
| BNL | CZ | DK | DE | EE | EL | ES | FR | IT | CY | LV | LT | HU | MT | AT | PL | PT | SI | SK | FI | SE | IS | NO | 
Australia | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | 
Chile | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Israel | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Mexico | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | 
United States of America | | | | | | X | X | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 3 
Joint list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the airport transit visa requirement, where holders of travel documents issued by these third countries are also subject to this visa requirement [1] 
The Schengen States undertake not to amend Part I of Annex 3 without the prior consent of the other Member States. 
If a Member State intends to amend Part II of this Annex, it undertakes to inform its partners and to take account of their interests. 
Part I 
Joint list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the airport visa requirement (ATV) by all Schengen States where holders of travel documents issued by these third countries are also subject to this requirement [2] [3] 
AFGHANISTAN 
BANGLADESH 
CONGO (Democratic Republic) 
ERITREA [4] 
ETHIOPIA 
GHANA [5] 
IRAN [6] 
IRAQ 
NIGERIA 
PAKISTAN [7] 
SOMALIA 
SRI LANKA 
These persons shall not be subject to the visa requirement if they hold one of the residence permits of an EEA Member State listed in Part III (A) of this Annex or one of the residence permits of Andorra, Japan, Canada, Monaco, San Marino, Switzerland or the United States guaranteeing an unqualified right of return and listed in Part III (B). 
This list of residence permits shall be drawn up by mutual agreement within Working Group II's Sub-Group on Visas and verified regularly. Should problems arise, the Schengen States may suspend these measures until such time as the problems in question have been resolved by mutual agreement. The Contracting States may exclude certain residence permits from this exemption if indicated in Part III. 
Exemptions from the airport transit visa requirement for holders of diplomatic, service or other official passports shall be decided by each Member State individually. 
Part II 
Joint list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the airport transit visa requirement by some Schengen States only, where holders of travel documents issued by these third countries are also subject to this requirement 
| BNL | CZ | DK | DE | EE | EL | ES | FR | IT | CY | LV | LT | HU | MT | AT | PL | PT | SI | SK | FI | SE | IS | NO | 
Albania | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Angola | X | | | X | X | X | X | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Armenia | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | 
Azerbaijan | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | 
Burkina Faso | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cameroon | | | | | | | | X | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Congo | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Côte d'Ivoire | | | | | X | | X | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cuba | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Egypt | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Gambia | X | | | X | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Guinea | X | | | | | | | X | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Guinea Bissau | X | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Haiti | | | | | X | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
India | | | X | X | | X | X | X | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | 
Jordan | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
(North) Korea | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Lebanon | | X | | X | X | | | X | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Liberia | | | | | X | | X | X | | | | | X | | X | | X | | | | | | | 
Libya | | | | | X | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Mali | | | | | X | | X | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Northern Marianas | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Philippines | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Rwanda | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Senegal | | | | | X | | | X | X | | | | X | | | | X | | | | | | | 
Sierra Leone | X | | | | X | | X | X | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Sudan | X | | | X | X | X | | X | | | | X | X | | | X | | | | | | | | 
Syria | X | X | | X | X | X | | X | | | | | X | | | | | | | | | | | 
Togo | | | | | X | | X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Turkey | | | | X | | X | | | | X | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | 
Vietnam | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | X | | | | | | | | 
[1] It is not necessary to consult the central authorities for the issue of an airport transit visa (ATV). 
[2] For all the Schengen States:The following persons shall be exempt from the ATV requirement: 
- flight crew who are nationals of a Contracting Party to the Chicago Convention. 
[3] For the Benelux countries, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Spain, France, Hungary, Slovenia and Slovakia:The following persons shall be exempt from the ATV requirement: 
- holders of diplomatic and service passports. 
[4] For Italy:Only where the nationals are not in possession of a valid visa or residence permit for a Member State of the EU or a State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area of 2 May 1992, Canada, Switzerland or the United States of America. 
[5] For Germany:The following persons shall be exempt from the ATV requirement: 
- holders of diplomatic and service passports. 
[6] For Germany and Cyprus:The following persons shall be exempt from the ATV requirement: 
- holders of diplomatic and service passports.For Poland:The following persons shall be exempt from the ATV requirement: 
- holders of diplomatic passports. 
[7] For Germany:The following persons shall be exempt from the ATV requirement: 
- holders of diplomatic passports. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 4 
List of documents entitling holders to entry without a visa 
BELGIUM 
- Carte d'identité d'étranger 
Identiteitskaart voor vreemdelingen 
Personalausweis für Ausländer 
(Aliens Identity Card) 
- Certificat d'inscription au régistre des étrangers 
Bewijs van inschrijving in het vreemdelingenregister 
Bescheinigung der Eintragung im Ausländer-register 
(Certificate of entry in aliens' register) 
- Special residence permits issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 
- Carte d'identité diplomatique 
Diplomatieke identiteitskaart 
Diplomatischer Personalausweis 
(Diplomat's Identity Card) 
- Carte d'identité consulaire 
Consular identiteitskaart 
Konsularer Personalausweis 
(Consular Identity Card) 
- Carte d'identité spéciale — couleur bleue 
Bijzondere identiteitskaart — blauw 
Besonderer Personalausweis — blau 
(Special Identity Card — blue in colour) 
- Carte d'identité spéciale — couleur rouge 
Bijzondere identiteitskaart — rood 
Besonderer Personalausweis — rot 
(Special Identity Card — red in colour) 
- Certificat d'identité pour les enfants âgés de moins de cinq ans des étrangers privilégiés titulaires d'une carte d'identité diplomatique, d'une carte d'identité consulaire, d'une carte d'identité spéciale — couleur bleue ou d'une carte d'identité — couleur rouge 
Identiteitsbewijs voor kinderen, die de leeftijd van vijf jaar nog niet hebben bereikt, van een bevoorrecht vreemdeling dewelke houder is van een diplomatieke identiteitskaart, consulaire identiteitskaart, bijzondere identiteitskaart — blauw of bijzondere identiteitskaart — rood 
Identitätsnachweis für Kinder unter fünf Jahren, für privilegierte Ausländer, die Inhaber eines diplomatischen Personalausweises sind, konsularer Personalausweis, besonderer Personalausweis — rot oder besonderer Personalausweis — blau 
(Identity card for children, under the age of five, of aliens who are holders of diplomatic identity cards, consular identity cards, blue special identity cards or red special identity cards) 
- Certificat d'identité avec photographie délivré par une administration communale belge à un enfant de moins de douze ans 
Door een Belgisch gemeentebestuur aan een kind beneden de 12 jaar afgegeven identiteitsbewijs met foto 
Von einer belgischen Gemeindeverwaltung einem Kind unter dem 12. Lebensjahr ausgestellter Personalausweis mit Lichtbild 
(Certificate of identity with photograph issued by Belgian communes to children under twelve) 
- List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
- Povolení k pobytu (štítek v pasu) 
(Residence permit) (sticker in a passport) 
- Průkaz o povolení pobytu pro cizince (zelené provedení) 
(Residence permit certificate for an alien) (green booklet) 
- Průkaz o povolení pobytu pro státního příslušníka členského státu Evropských společenství (fialové provedení) 
(Residence permit certificate for a citizen of a Member State of the European Communities) (violet booklet) 
- Cestovní doklad — Úmluva z 28. července 1951) vydávaný azylantům (modré provedení) 
(Travel Document — Convention of 28 July 1951) (blue booklet) 
- Povolení k přechodnému pobytu od — do (razítko v pasu) 
(Temporary residence valid from — to)(stamp in a passport of a citizen of a Member State of the European Communities or his/her family member who is not a citizen of a Member State of the European Communities) 
- Trvalý pobyt v ČR od …) (razítko v pasu) 
(Permanent residence valid of …) (stamp in a passport of a citizen of a Member State of the European Communities or his/her family member who is not a citizen of a Member State of the European Communities) 
DENMARK 
Residence cards 
EF/EØ — opholdskort (EU/EEA residence card) (title on card) 
- Kort A. Tidsbegrænset EF/EØS-opholdsbevis (anvendes til EF/EØS-statsborgere) 
(Card A. Temporary EU/EEA residence permit used for EU/EEA nationals) 
- Kort B. Tidsubegrænset EP/EØS-opholdsbevis (anvendes til EF/EØS-statsborgere) 
(Card B. EU/EEA residence permit of unlimited duration used for EU/EEA nationals) 
- Kort K. Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til tredjelandsstatsborgere, der meddeles opholdstilladelse efter ER/EØS-reglerne) 
(Card K. Temporary residence permit for nationals of third countries who have been granted a residence permit under EU/EEA rules) 
- Kort L. Tidsubegrænset opholdstilladelse til tredjelandsstatsborgere, der meddeles opholdstilladelse efter ER/EØS-reglerne) 
(Card L. Residence permit of unlimited duration for nationals of third countries who have been granted a residence permit under EU/EEA rules) 
Residence permits (title on card) 
- Kort C. Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse 
(Card C. Temporary residence permit for aliens who are not required to have a work permit) 
- Kort D. Tidsubegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse 
(Card D. Residence permit of unlimited duration for aliens who are not required to have a work permit) 
- Kort E. Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der ikke har ret til arbejde 
(Card E. Temporary residence permit for aliens who do not have the right to work) 
- Kort F. Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til flygtninge — er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse 
(Card F. Temporary residence permit for refugees — not required to have a work permit) 
- Kort G. Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til EF/EØS — stats borgere, som har andet opholdsgrundlag end efter EF-reglerne — er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse 
(Card G. Temporary residence permit for EU/EEA nationals who have a basis for residence other than that deriving from EU rules — not required to have a work permit) 
- Kort H. Tidsubegrænset opholdstilladelse til EF/EØS — stats borgere, som har andet opholdsgrundlag end efter EF-reglerne — er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse 
(Card H. Residence permit of unlimited duration for EU/EEA nationals who have a basis for residence other than that deriving from EU rules — not required to have a work permit) 
- Kort J. Tidsbegrænset opholds- og arbejdstilladelse til udlændinge 
(Card J. Temporary residence and work permit for aliens) 
Since 14 September 1998 Denmark has issued new residence pemits in credit-card format. 
There are still some valid residence permits of types B, D and H in circulation which were issued in another format. These cards are made of laminated paper, measure approximately 9 cm x 13 cm and bear a pattern of the Danish coat of arms in white. For Card B, the background colour is beige, for Card D it is light pink and for Card H light mauve. 
Stickers to be affixed to passports, bearing the following wording 
- Sticker B. Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der ikke har ret til arbejde 
(Sticker B. Temporary residence permit for aliens who do not have the right to work) 
- Sticker C. Tidsbegrænset opholds- og arbejdstilladelse 
(Sticker C. Temporary residence and work permit) 
- Sticker D. Medfølgende slægtninge (opholdstilladelse til børn, der er optaget i forældres pas) 
(Sticker D. Accompanying relatives (residence permit for children who are included in their parents' passport) 
- Sticker H. Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der er fritaget for arbjdstilladelse 
(Sticker H. Temporary residence permit for aliens who are not required to have a work permit) 
Stickers issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
- Sticker E — Diplomatisk visering 
(Sticker E — diplomatic visa) — issued to diplomats and the members of their family who appear on the diplomatic lists, and to staff of equivalent rank at the international organisations in Denmark. Valid for residence and for multiple entry for as long as the person concerned is on the diplomatic lists in Copenhagen) 
- Sticker F — Opholdstilladelse 
(Sticker F — residence permit) — issued to seconded technical or administrative staff and members of their family and to domestic servants of diplomats on secondment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of origin with a service passport. Also issued to staff of equivalent rank at the international organisation in Denmark. Valid for residence and multiple entry for the duration of the mission. 
- Sticker S (i kombination med sticker E eller F) 
(Sticker S (in combination with Sticker E or F) 
Residence permit for accompanying close relatives, where they are included in the passport. 
It should be noted that identity cards for foreign diplomats, technical or administrative staff, domestic servants etc. issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not give the holder the right to enter the territory without a visa, since such identity cards are not proof of permission to reside in Denmark. 
Other documents 
- List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union 
- Readmission permit in the form of a visa sticker with national code D 
GERMANY 
I. General 
- Aufenthaltserlaubnis 
(residence permit) 
- Niederlassungserlaubnis 
(settlement permit) 
- Aufenthaltserlaubnis — EU für Familienangehörige von Staatsangehörigen eines Mitgliedstaates der Europäischen Union oder eines EWR-Staates, die nicht Staatsangehörige eines Mitgliedstaates der EU oder des EWR sind 
(residence permit for EU or EEA Member State nationals' family members who are not EU or EEA Member State nationals) 
- Aufenthaltserlaubnis für Staatsangehörige der Schweizerischen Eidgenossenschaft und ihre Familienangehörigen, die nicht Staatsangehörige der Schweizerischen Eidgenossenschaft sind 
(residence permit for Swiss nationals and for their family members who are not Swiss nationals) 
- The following permits issued before 1 January 2005 also entitle holders to enter without a visa: 
- Aufenthaltserlaubnis für Angehörige eines Mitgliedstaates der EWG 
(residence permit for EC Member State nationals) 
- Aufenthaltsberechtigung für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland 
(unlimited residence permit for the Federal Republic of Germany) 
- Aufenthaltsbewilligung für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland 
(specific-purpose residence permit for the Federal Republic of Germany) 
- Aufenthaltsbefugnis für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland 
(exceptional residence permit for the Federal Republic of Germany) 
These permits are valid in lieu of a visa, for entry without a visa, only if issued in a passport or separately in conjunction with a passport, not if issued as an internal document in lieu of an identity card. 
Nor is an "Aussetzung der Abschiebung (Duldung)" (deferral of expulsion (exceptional leave to remain)) or an "Aufenthaltsgestattung für Asylbewerber" (temporary residence permit for asylum seekers) valid for entry without a visa. 
- Fiktionsbescheinigung (interim certification) 
in which the third box on page 3 ("the residence permit remains in effect (§ paragraph 81(4) AufenthG)" is ticked. Entry is possible only in conjunction with an expired residence permit or visa. 
The first and second tick-boxes do not expressly allow entry without a visa. 
II. Passes for members of diplomatic missions 
The attendant privileges are shown on the back of the each pass. 
- Passes issued to diplomats and their family members 
Marked "D" on the back: 
- diplomatic passes for foreign diplomats: 
- Diplomatenausweis (pass for diplomats) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- Protokollausweis für Diplomaten (protocol pass for diplomats) (since 1 August 2003) 
- diplomatic passes for family members engaging in gainful private employment: 
- Diplomatenausweis "A" ("A" pass for diplomats) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- Protokollausweis für Diplomaten "A" ("A" protocol pass for diplomats) (since 1 August 2003) 
- diplomatic passes for diplomats who are German nationals or permanently resident in Germany 
- Diplomatenausweis Art. 38 WÜD (pass for diplomats under Article 38 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- Protokollausweis für Diplomaten Art. 38 I WÜD (protocol pass for diplomats under Article 38(1) of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations) (since 1 August 2003) 
- Passes issued to administrative or technical staff and their family members: 
Marked "VB" on the back: 
- protocol pass for foreign administrative or technical staff: 
- Protokollausweis für Verwaltungspersonal 
(protocol pass for administrative staff) (since 1999) 
- protocol pass for administrative or technical staff family members engaging in gainful private employment: 
- Protokollausweis für Verwaltungspersonal "A" 
("A" protocol pass for administrative staff) (since 1 August 2003) 
- protocol pass for administrative or technical staff who are German nationals or permanently resident in Germany: 
- Protokollausweis für Mitglieder VB Art. 38 2 WÜD 
(protocol pass for administrative staff under Article 38(2) of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations) (since 1 August 2003) 
- Passes issued to service staff and their family members: 
Marked "DP" on the back: 
Protokollausweis für dienstliches Hauspersonal 
(protocol pass for service staff) (since 1999) 
- Passes issued to local staff and their family members: 
Marked "OK" on the back: 
Protokollausweis für Ortskräfte (protocol pass for local staff) (since 1999) 
- Passes issued to private domestic staff: 
Marked "PP" on the back: 
Protokollausweis für privates Hauspersonal 
(protocol pass for private domestic staff) (since 1999) 
III. Passes for members of career-type consular posts 
The attendant privileges are shown on the back of each pass. 
- Passes issued to consular officers: 
Marked "K" on the back: 
- passes for foreign consular officers: 
- Ausweis für Konsularbeamte 
(pass for consular officers) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- Protokollausweis für Konsularbeamte 
(protocol pass for consular officers) (since 1 August 2003) 
- pass for consular officers' family members engaging in gainful private employment: 
- Ausweis für Konsularbeamt "A" 
("A" pass for consular officers) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- passes for consular officers who are German nationals or permanently resident in Germany: 
- Ausweis für Konsularbeamte "Art. 71 WÜK" 
(pass for consular officers under Article 71 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- Protokollausweis für Konsularbeamte "Art. 71 I WÜK" 
(protocol pass for consular officers under Article 71(1) of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations) (since 1 August 2003) 
- Passes issued to career-type consular administrative or technical staff: 
Marked "VK" on the back: 
- protocol pass for foreign administrative or technical staff: 
- Protokollausweis für Verwaltungspersonal 
(protocol pass for administrative staff) (since 1999) 
- protocol pass for administrative or technical staff family members engaging in gainful private employment: 
- Protokollausweis für Verwaltungspersonal "A" 
("A" protocol pass for administrative staff) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- protocol passes for administrative or technical staff who are German nationals or permanently resident in Germany: 
- Ausweis für Verwaltungspersonal "Art. 71 WÜK" 
(pass for administrative staff under Article 71 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations) (1999 to 31 July 2003) 
- Protokollausweis für Mitglieder VK Art. 71 II WÜK 
(protocol pass for administrative staff under Article 71(2) of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations) (since 1 August 2003) 
- Passes issued to career-type consular service staff: 
Marked "DH" on the back: 
Protokollausweis für dienstliches Hauspersonal 
(protocol pass for service staff) (since 1999) 
- Passes issued to consular officers' or administrative, technical or service staff family members: 
Marked "KF" on the back: 
Protokollausweis f. Familienangehörige (Konsulat) 
(protocol pass for family members (consular)) 
This new type of pass has been issued since 1 August 2003. Up until then, consular officers' or administrative, technical or service staff family members were issued the same kind of pass as the consular staff themselves, unless issued one of the above "A" passes on account of gainful employment. 
- Passes issued to career-type consular local staff: 
Marked "OK" on the back: 
Protokollausweis für Ortskräfte (protocol pass for local staff) (since 1999) 
- Passes issued to career-type consular private domestic staff: 
Marked "PP" on the back: 
Protokollausweis für privates Hauspersonal 
(protocol pass for private domestic staff) (since 1999) 
IV. Special passes 
- Passes issued to members of international organisations and their family members: 
Marked "IO" on the back: 
Sonderausweis "IO" ("IO" special pass) (since 1999) 
Note: heads of international organisations and their family members are issued a pass marked "D"; private domestic staff of international organisations' staff are issued a pass marked "PP". 
- Passes issued to household members under section 27(1)(5) of the Residence Regulations: 
Marked "S" on the back: 
Sonderausweis "S" ("S" special pass) (since 1 January 2005) 
V. List of participants in a school trip within the European Union 
ESTONIA 
- Alaline elamisluba 
(Permanent residence permit) 
- Tähtajaline elamisluba 
(Temporary residence permit) 
In case an alien, who is a family member of the citizen of the EU, applies for a residence permit to stay with his/her family member in Estonia the Citizenship and Migration Board issues a special residence permit: 
- El kodaniku perekonnaliikme elamisluba 
(Residence permit of EU citizen family member) 
GREECE 
1. Άδεια παραμονής αλλοδαπού (ενιαίου τύπου) 
Alien's residence permit (uniform format) 
[This document is valid for between six months and an indefinite period. It is issued to all aliens who are legally resident in Greece.] 
The above residence permit is affixed to travel documents recognised by Greece. In the event that a third-country national does not possess a travel document recognised by Greece, the competent Greek services affix the uniform-format residence permit to a special form. This special form is issued by the Greek authorities on the basis of Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 333/2002, with the security specifications provided for in the same Regulation, bears three vertical stripes coloured orange-green-orange and is called "Φύλλο επί του οποίου τίθεται άδεια διαμονής" [Form for affixing a residence permit]. 
2. Άδεια παραμονής αλλοδαπού (χρώμα μπεζ-κίτρινο) [1] 
(Alien's residence permit) (beige-yellow) 
[This document was issued to all aliens legally resident in Greece. It is valid for between one year and an indefinite period.] 
3. Άδεια παραμονής αλλοδαπού (χρώμα λευκό) [2] 
(Alien's residence permit) (white) 
[This document was issued to aliens married to Greek nationals. It is valid for five years.] 
4. Άδεια παραμονής αλλοδαπού (βιβλιάριο χρώματος λευκού) [3] 
(Alien's residence permit) (white booklet) 
[This document was issued to persons recognised as refugees under the 1951 Geneva Convention.] 
5. Δελτίο ταυτότητας αλλοδαπού (χρώμα πράσινο) [4] 
(Alien's identity permit) (green) 
[This document is issued only to aliens of Greek descent; it may be valid for either two or five years.] 
6. Ειδικό δελτίο ταυτότητας ομογενούς (χρώμα μπεζ) [5] 
(Special identity card for aliens of Greek descent (beige) 
[This document is issued to Albanian nationals of Greek descent; it is valid for three years. The card is also issued to their spouses, regardless of nationality, and to their children, provided there is official documentation to prove their family ties.] 
7. Ειδικό δελτίο ταυτότητας ομογενούς (χρώμα ροζ) [6] 
(Special identity card for aliens of Greek descent) (pink) 
[This document is issued to aliens of Greek descent from the former USSR. It is valid indefinitely.] 
8. Ειδικές Ταυτότητες της Διεύθυνσης Εθιμοτυπίας του Υπουργείου Εξωτερικών 
(Special identity cards issued by the Directorate for Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
A. Format "D" (diplomatic staff) (red) 
This document is issued to the head and members of every diplomatic mission and to members of their families (spouses and children up to the age of eighteen) holding diplomatic passports. 
B. Format "A" (administrative and technical staff) (orange) 
This document is issued to members of the staff of diplomatic missions and to members of their families (spouses and children up to the age of eighteen) holding service passports. 
C. Format "S" (service staff) (green) 
This document is issued to members of the service staff of diplomatic missions and to members of their families (spouses and children up to the age of eighteen). 
D. Format "CC" (consular officer) (blue) 
This document is issued to members of the consular staff and to members of their families (spouses and children up to the age of eighteen). 
E. Format "CE" (consular employee) (pale blue/azure) 
This document is issued to members of the administrative staff of consular authorities and to members of their families (spouses and children up to the age of eighteen). 
F. Format "CH" (honorary consular officer) (grey) 
This document is issued to honorary consuls. 
G. Format "IO" (international organisation) (deep mauve) 
This document is issued to the staff of international organisations and to members of their families (spouses and children up to the age of eighteen) who enjoy diplomatic status. 
H. Format "IO" (international organisation) (pale mauve) 
This document is issued to members of the administrative staff of international organisations and to members of their families (spouses and children up to the age of eighteen) 
It should be noted that in the case of nationals of the Member States of the European Union and of the above categories A to E, the European Union flag has been printed on the reverse side of the new identity cards. 
9. List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union. 
SPAIN 
Holders of a valid re-entry authorisation will be allowed entry without a visa. 
Currently valid residence permits entitling aliens who, because of their nationality, would normally be subject to a visa requirement to enter Spanish territory without a visa are as follows: 
- Permiso de Residencia Inicial 
(Initial Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Residencia Ordinario 
(Ordinary Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Residencia Especial 
(Special Residence Permit) 
- Tarjeta de Estudiante 
(Student Card) 
- Permiso de Residencia tipo A 
(Type A Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Residencia tipo b 
(Type b Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Trabajo y de Residencia tipo B 
(Type B Work and Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Trabajo y de Residencia tipo C 
(Type C Work and Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Trabajo y de Residencia tipo d 
(Type d Work and Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Trabajo y de Residencia tipo D 
(Type D Work and Residence Permit) 
- Permiso de Trabajo y de Residencia tipo E 
(Type E Work and Residence Permit) 
- Permisa de Trabajo fronterizo tipo F 
(Type F border work permit) 
- Permisa de Trabajo y Residencia tipo P 
(Type P work and residence permit) 
- Permisa de Trabajo y Residencia tipo Ex 
(Type Ex work and residence permit) 
- Tarjeta de Reconocimiento de la excepción a la necesidad de obtener Permi-so de Trabajo y Permiso de Residencia (art. Ley 7/85) 
(Pass acknowledging exemption from the requirement to obtain a work and residence permit — Article 16 Law 7/85) 
- Permiso de Residencia para Refugiados 
(Residence Permit for refugees) 
- Lista de personas que participan en un viaje excolar dentro de la Unión Europea 
(List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union) 
- Tarjeta de Familiar Residente Comunitario 
(Pass for relatives of a Community resident) 
- Tarjeta temporal de Familiar de Residente Comunitario 
(Temporary pass for relatives of a Community resident) 
The holders of the following valid accreditation cards issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may enter without a visa: 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, red in colour), on the cover it reads "Cuerpo Diplomático. Embajador. Documento de Identidad" (Diplomatic corps. Ambassador. Identity document), issued to accredited ambassadors 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, red in colour), on the cover it reads "Cuerpo Diplomático. Documento de Identidad" (Diplomatic corps. Identity document), issued to staff accredited to diplomatic missions who have diplomatic status. An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, yellow in colour), on the cover it reads "Misiones Diplomáticas. Personal Administrativo y Técnico. Documento de Identidad" (Diplomatic missions. Administrative and technical staff. Identity document), issued to administrative officials at accredited diplomatic missions. An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, red in colour), on the cover it reads "Tarjeta Diplomática de Identidad" (Diplomatic identity card), issued to staff with diplomatic status at the office of the League of Arab States and to staff accredited to the Office of the Palestinian General Delegation (Oficina de la Delegación General). An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, red in colour), on the cover it reads "Organismos Internacionales. Estatuto Diplomático. Documento de Identi-dad" (International organisations. Diplomatic status. Identity document), issued to staff with diplomatic status accredited to International Organisations. An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, blue in colour), on the cover it reads "Organismos Internacionales. Personal Administrativo y Técnico. Documento de Identidad" (International Organisations. Administrative and technical staff. Identity document), issued to administrative officials accredited to International Organisations. An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, green in colour), on the cover it reads "Funcionario Consular de Carrera. Documento de Identidad" (Career Consular Official. Identity document), issued to career consular officials accredited in Spain. An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, green in colour), entitled "Empleado Consular. Emitido a .... Documento de Identidad" (Consular employee. Issued on behalf of ... Identity document), issued to consular administrative officials accredited in Spain. An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
- Tarjeta especial (Special pass, grey in colour), entitled "Personal de Servicio. Missiones Diplomáticas, Oficinas Consulares y Organismos Internacionales. Emitido a .... Documento de Identidad" (Service staff. Diplomatic missions, consular posts and international organisations. Issued on behalf of ... Identity document). This is issued to staff working in the domestic service of diplomatic missions, consular posts and international organisations (service duty staff) and staff with career diplomatic or consular status (special servants). An F is added to the document when issued to spouses or children 
FRANCE 
1. Adult aliens should be in possession of the following documents: 
- Carte de séjour temporaire comportant une mention particulière qui varie selon le motif du séjour autorisé 
(A temporary Residence Permit containing particular details which will vary in accordance with the grounds for the authorised stay) 
- Carte de résident 
(Resident's card) 
- Certificat de résidence d'Algérien comportant une mention particulière qui varie selon le motif du séjour autorisé (1 an, 10 ans) 
(Algerian Residence Certificate containing a particular reference depending on grounds for the authorised stay) (1 year, 10 years) 
- Certificat de résidence d'Algérien portant la mention "membre d'un organisme officiel") (2 ans) 
(Algerian Residence Certificate bearing the words "member of an official organisation") (2 years) 
- Carte de séjour des Communautés européennes (1 an, 5 ans, 10 ans) 
(European Communities Residence Permit) (1 year, 5/10 years) 
- Carte de séjour de l'Espace Economique Européen 
(European Economic Area Residence Permit) 
- Cartes officielles valant de titre de séjour, délivrées par le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères 
(Official permits with the same status as residence permits issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
Titres de séjour spéciaux (special residence permits) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CMD/A délivrée aux Chefs de Mission diplomatique 
(special residence permit marked "CMD/A" issued to heads of diplomatic missions) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CMD/M délivrée aux Chefs de Mission d'Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "CMD/M" issued to heads of mission of international organisations) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CMD/D délivrée aux Chefs d'une délégation permanente auprès d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "CMD/D" issued to heads of permanent delegations to international organisations) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CD/A délivrée aux agents du Corps Diplomatique 
(special residence permit marked "CD/A" issued to diplomatic officials) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CD/M délivrée aux Hauts Fonctionnaires d'une organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "CD/M" issued to senior officials of an international organisation) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CD/D délivrée aux assimilés diplomatiques membres d'une délégation permanente auprès d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "CD/D" issued to officials comparable to diplomatic officials who are members of permanent delegations to international organisations) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CC/C délivrée aux Fonctionnaires Consulaires 
(special residence permit marked "CC/C" issued to consular officials) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/A délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'une Ambassade 
(special residence permit marked "AT/A" issued to administrative or technical staff of an Embassy) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/C délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'un Consulat 
(special residence permit marked "AT/C" issued to administrative or technical staff of a Consulate) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/M délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "AT/M" issued to administrative or technical staff οf an international organisation) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/D délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'une Délégation auprès d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "AT/D" issued to administrative or technical staff of a delegation to an international organisation) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/A délivrée au personnel de Service d'une Ambassade 
(special residence permit marked "SE/A" issued to service staff of an Embassy) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/C délivrée au personnel de Service d'un Consulat 
(special residence permit marked "SE/C" issued to service staff of a Consulate) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/M délivrée au personnel de Service d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "SE/M" issued to service staff of an international organisation) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/D délivrée au personnel de Service d'une Délégation auprès d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "SE/D" issued to service staff of a delegation to an international organisation) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/A délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un diplomate 
(special residence permit marked "PP/A" issued to private staff of a diplomat) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/C délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un Fonctionnaire consulaire 
(special residence permit marked "PP/C" issued to private staff of a consular official) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/M délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un membre d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "PP/M" issued to private staff of a member of an international organisation) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/D délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un membre d'une Délégation permanente auprès d'une Organisation Internationale 
(special residence permit marked "PP/D" issued to private staff of a member of a permanent delegation at an international organisation) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention EM/A délivrée aux Enseignants ou Militaires à statut spécial attachés auprès d'une Ambassade 
(special residence permit marked "EM/A" issued to teachers or military staff with special status attached to an Embassy) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention EM/C délivrée aux Enseignants ou Militaires à statut spécial attachés auprès d'un Consulat 
(special residence permit marked "EM/C" issued to teachers or military staff with special status attached to a Consulate) 
- Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention EF/M délivrée aux Fonctionnaires internationaux domiciliés à l'étranger 
(special residence permit marked "EF/M" issued to international officials domiciled abroad) 
- Monegasque permits 
- la carte de séjour de résident temporaire de Monaco 
(temporary resident's permit); 
- la carte de séjour de résident ordinaire de Monaco 
(ordinary resident's permit); 
- la carte de séjour de résident privilégié de Monaco 
(privileged resident's permit); 
- la carte de séjour de conjoint de ressortissant monégasque 
(residence permit for the spouse of a person of Monegasque nationality). 
2. Aliens who are minors should be in possession of the following documents: 
- Document de circulation pour étrangers mineurs 
(Travel document for alien minors) 
- Titre d'identité républicain 
(French Republic identity document) 
- Visa de retour (sans condition de nationalité et sans présentation du titre de séjour, auquel ne sont pas soumis les enfants mineurs) 
(Return visas) (alien minors are not subject to nationality conditions or to production of residence permits) 
- Passeport diplomatique/de service/ordinaire des enfants mineurs des titulaires d'une carte spéciale du Ministère des Affaires étrangères revêtu d'un visa de circulation 
(Diplomatic/service/ordinary passports for minors who are children of holders of a Special Pass issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs containing a travel visa) 
3. List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union. 
NB 1: 
It should be noted that acknowledgements of first-time applications for residence permits do not give entitlement to entry without a visa. In contrast, acknowledgements of requests to renew residence permits, or to amend permits are considered valid, when these are accompanied by the old permit. 
NB 2: 
The "attestation de fonctions" (certificate of appointment) issued by the protocol department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not constitute a replacement for a residence permit. Holders must also be in possession of one of the standard residence permits. 
ITALY 
- Carta di soggiorno (validità illimitata) 
(Residence Permit) (unlimited validity) 
- Permesso di soggiorno con esclusione delle sotto elencate tipologie: 
(Residence permit with the exception of the following:) 
1. Permesso di soggiorno provvisorio per richiesta asilo politico ai sensi della Convenzione di Dublino 
(Provisional residence permit for political asylum seekers pursuant to the Dublin Convention) 
2. Permesso di soggiorno per cure mediche 
(Residence permit for medical purposes) 
3. Permeso di soggiorno per motivi di giustizia 
(Residence permit for legal purposes) 
- Carta d'identità M.A.E. 
(Identity Card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
- Mod. 1 (blu) Corpo diplomatico accreditato e consorti titolari di passaporto diplomatico 
(Model 1 (blue) Accredited members of the diplomatic corps and their spouses who hold a diplomatic passport) 
- Mod. 2 (verde) Corpo consolare titolare di passaporto diplomatico 
(Model 2 (green) Members of the consular corps who hold a diplomatic passport) 
- Mod. 3 (orange) Funzionari II^ FAO titolari di passaporto diplomatico, di servizio o ordinario 
(Model 3 (orange) Category II FAO officials who hold a diplomatic, service or ordinary passport) 
- Mod. 4 (orange) Impiegati tecnico-amministrativi presso Rappresentanze diplomatiche titolari di passaporto di servizio 
(Model 4 (orange) Technical and administrative staff of diplomatic representations who hold a service passport) 
- Mod. 5 (orange) Impiegati consolari titolari di passaporto di servizio 
(Model 5 (orange) Consular staff who hold a service passport) 
- Mod. 7 (grigio) Personale di servizio presso Rappresentanze diplomatiche titolare di passaporto di servizio 
(Model 7 (grey) Domestic staff of diplomatic representations who hold a service passport) 
- Mod. 8 (grigio) Personale di servizio presso Rappresentanze Consolari titolare di passaporto di servizio 
(Model 8 (grey) Domestic staff of consular representations who hold a service passport) 
- Mod. 11 (beige) Funzionari delle Organizzazioni internazionali, Consoli Onorari, impiegati locali, personale di servizio assunto all'estero e venuto al seguito, familiari Corpo Diplomatico e Organizzazioni Internazionali titolari di passaporto ordinario 
(Model 11 (beige) Officials of international organisations, honorary consuls, local employees, domestic staff recruited abroad who have followed their employer, families of members of the diplomatic corps and international organisations who hold an ordinary passport) 
NB: Models 6 (orange) and 9 (green) for, respectively, staff of international organisations who have no immunity and foreign honorary consuls, are no longer issued and have been replaced by model 11. However, these documents remain valid until the expiry date stated on them. 
- List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union. 
LATVIA 
- Pastāvīgās uzturēšanās atļauja 
(Permanent residence permit, green in colour) 
- Termiņuzturēšanās atļauja 
(Temporary residence permit, pink in colour) 
- Uzturēšanās atļauja (issued since 1 May 2004) 
(Residence permit, pink in colour) 
- Nepilsoņa pase 
(Aliens passport, violet in colour) 
LITHUANIA 
1. Leidimas laikinai gyventi Lietuvos Respublikoje 
(Permit of temporary residence in the Republic of Lithuania — card or sticker) 
2. Leidimas nuolat gyventi Lietuvos Respublikoje 
(Permit of permanent residence in the Republic of Lithuania — card) 
3. Europos bendrijų valstybės narės piliečio leidimas gyventi 
(Residence permit for a national of a Member State of the EU — card) 
4. Asmens grįžimo pažymėjimas 
(Repatriation certificate, only to return to the Republic of Lithuania — bluish) 
5. Akreditacijos pažymėjimas "A" 
(Accreditation certificate "A" category — yellow) — temporary 
6. Akreditacijos pažymėjimas "B" 
(Accreditation certificate "B" category — yellow) — temporary 
LUXEMBOURG 
- Carte d'identité d'étranger 
(Alien's Identity Card) 
- Autorisation de séjour provisoire apposée dans le passeport national 
(Provisional Residence Authorisation affixed in national passports) 
- Carte diplomatique délivrée par le Ministère des Affaires étrangères 
(Diplomat's Pass issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
- Titre de légitimation délivré par le Ministère des Affaires étrangères au personnel administratif et technique des Ambassades 
(Certificate issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Embassy's administrative and technical staff) 
- Titre de légitimation délivré par le Ministère de la Justice au personnel des institutions et organisations internationales établies au Luxembourg 
(Certificate issued by the Ministry for Justice to the staff of institutions and International Organisations based in Luxembourg) 
- List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union 
HUNGARY 
1. Humanitárius tartózkodási engedély 
(humanitarian residence permit) (card form) — accompanied by a national passport 
2. Tartózkodási engedély 
(residence permit (card form) — accompanied by a national passport 
3. Tartózkodási engedély 
(residence permit (sticker form) — affixed to a national passport 
4. Bevándoroltak részére kiadott személyazonosító igazolvány 
(Identity card issued for immigrants) — accompanied by a national passport which indicates issue of the immigration permit 
5. Letelepedési engedély 
(permanent residence permit) — accompanied by a national passport which indicates issue of the authorization for permanent residence 
6. Letelepedettek részére kiadott tartózkodási engedély 
(residence permit issued for permanently residing people) (sticker form) — affixed to a national passport 
7. Diáklista 
(List of persons participating in a school trip within the EU) 
8. Igazolvány diplomáciai képviselők és családtagjaik részére 
(special certificate for diplomats and their family members) (diplomat's identity card) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary 
9. Igazolvány konzuli képviselet tagjai és családtagjaik részére 
(special certificate for members of consular posts and their family members) (consular identity card) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary 
10. Igazolvány képviselet igazgatási és műszaki személyzete és családtagjaik részére 
(special certificate for the members of the administrative and technical staff of diplomatic missions and their family members) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary 
11. Igazolvány képviselet kisegítő személyzete, háztartási alkalmazottak és családtagjaik részére 
(special certificate for the service staff of the diplomatic missions, private servants and their family members) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary 
THE NETHERLANDS 
1. The following types of aliens document: 
I 
(Regulier bepaalde tijd) 
(Regular — fixed-term) 
II 
(Regulier onbepaalde tijd) 
(Regular — indefinite) 
III 
(Asiel bepaalde tijd) 
(Asylum — fixed-term) 
IV 
(Asiel onbepaalde tijd) 
(Asylum — indefinite) 
EU/EER 
(Gemeenschapsonderdanen) 
(EU nationals) 
2. Het Geprivilegeerdendocument 
(Privileged persons document) 
Document issued to a group of "privileged persons" comprising members of the diplomatic corps, the consular corps and certain international organisations, and members of their family. 
3. Visum voor terugkeer 
(Return visa) 
4. List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union. 
AUSTRIA 
- Aufenthaltstitel in Form der Vignette entsprechend der Gemeinsamen Maßnahme der Europäischen Union vom 16. Dezember 1996 zur einheitlichen Gestaltung der Aufenthaltstitel 
(Residence permit in the form of a sticker in accordance with the EU Joint Action of 16 December 1996 concerning a uniform format for residence permits) 
(As from 1 January 1998 residence permits will be issued and extended in this form only. The following will be entered under "Type of Permit": 
Niederlassungsbewilligung (Permanent residence permit); Aufenthaltserlaubnis (Residence permit) "Befr. Aufenthaltsrecht" (Temporary residence permit). 
- Vor dem 1. Jänner 1998 erteilte Aufenthaltstitel im Rahmen der — auch "unbefristet" eingetragenen — Gültigkeitsdauer: 
Residence permits issued before 1 January 1998 remain valid for the period mentioned, some having been issued for an indefinite period: 
"Wiedereinreise — Sichtvermerk" oder "Einreise — Sichtvermerk"; wurden bis 31.12.1992 von Inlandsbehörden, aber auch von Vertretungsbehörden in Form eines Stempels ausgestellt; (Re-entry visas or entry visas issued by the Austrian authorities until 31.12.1992, and in the form of a stamp by the representing authorities); 
"Gewöhnlicher Sichtvermerk"; wurde vom 1.1.1993 bis 31.12.1997 in Form einer Vignette — ab 1.9.1996 entsprechend der VO[EG] 1683/95 — ausgestellt; 
(Ordinary visa: issued between 1 January 1993 and 31 December 1997 in the form of a sticker — as from 1 September 1996 in accordance with EU Regulation 1683/95) 
"Aufenthaltsbewilligung"; wurde vom 1.1.1993 bis 31.12.1997 in Form einer speziellen Vignette ausgestellt. 
(Residence permit: issued between 1 January 1993 and 31 December 1997, in the form of a special sticker) 
- Konventionsreisepaß ausgestellt ab 1.1.1993 
(Travel document, issued as of 1 January 1993) 
- Lichtbildausweis für Träger von Privilegien und Immunitäten in den Farben rot, gelb und blau, ausgestellt vom Bundesministerium für auswärtige Angelegenheiten 
(Identity card with photograph for the bearers of privileges and immunities in red, yellow and blue, issued by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs) 
- Lichtbildausweis im Kartenformat für Träger von Privilegien und Immunitäten in den Farben rot, gelb, blau, grün, braun, grau und orange, ausgestellt vom Bundesministrium für auswärtige Angelegenheiten 
(Identity card (in card format) with photograph for the bearers of privileges and immunities in red, yellow, blue, greenish brown, grey and orange issued by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs 
- List of pupils participating in school trips within the European Union 
The following are not valid as residence permits and therefore do not entitle the holder to visa-free entry into Austria: 
- Lichtbildausweis für Fremde gemäß § 85 Fremdengesetz 1997 
(Alien's identity card with photograph pursuant to § 85 of the 1997 Aliens Act) 
- Durchsetzungsaufschub und Abschiebungsaufschub nach Aufenthaltsverbot oder Ausweisung 
(Deferral of enforcement and deferral of removal following refusal of a residence permit or expulsion) 
- Bewilligung zur Wiedereinreise trotz bestehenden Aufenthaltsverbotes, in Form eines Visums erteilt, jedoch als eine solche Bewilligung gekennzeichnet 
(Authorisation to re-enter, despite refusal of a residence permit, issued in the form of a visa indicating that it is an authorisation of this kind) 
- Vorläufige Aufenthaltsberechtigung gemäß § 19 Asylgesetz 1997, bzw. § 7 AsylG 1991 
(Provisional residence permit pursuant to § 19 of the 1997 Asylum Act or § 7 of the 1991 Asylum Act) 
- Befristete Aufenthaltsberechtigung gemäß § 15 Asylgesetz 1997, bzw. § 8 AsylG 1991, als Duldung des Aufenthaltes trotz abgelehntem Asylantrag 
(Temporary residence permit pursuant to § 15 of the 1997 Asylum Act or § 8 of the 1991 Asylum Act, granting exceptional leave to remain despite rejection of the application for asylum) 
POLAND 
1. Karta pobytu (Residence card, "KP" Series, issued since 1 July, 2001) 
A residence card for an alien who has obtained: 
- a temporary residency permit, 
- a permanent residence permit, 
- a refugee status, 
- a consent for tolerated stay. 
It is an identity card and, when accompanied by a travel document, it entitles the holder to enter the territory of Poland without a visa. 
2. Karta stałego pobytu (Permanent residence card, "XS" series, issued before 30 June 2001) 
A permanent residence card for an alien who has obtained a permanent residence permit. It is an identity card and, when accompanied by a travel document, it entitles the holder to enter the territory of Poland without a visa. Valid for 10 years. The last card of this edition is valid until 29 June 2011. 
3. Special accreditation cards issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 
- Legitymacja dyplomatyczna (Diplomatic card) 
Issued to accredited ambassadors and members of diplomatic staff of the missions 
- Legitymacja konsularna (zielona) (Consular card — green) 
Issued to heads of consular posts and members of consular staff 
- Legitymacja konsularna (żółta) (Consular card — yellow) 
Issued to honorary consuls 
- Legitymacja służbowa (Service card) 
Issued to members of the administrative, technical and service staff of the missions 
- Zaświadczenie (Certificate) 
Issued to other categories of aliens than mentioned above in point 3, who are authorised to profit from diplomatic and consular immunity on the grounds of acts, agreements or international customs 
PORTUGAL 
- Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) 
(Identity Card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
Corpo Consular, Chefe de Missão 
(Consular corps, Head of mission) 
- Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) 
(Identity Card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
Corpo Consular, Funcionário de Missão 
(Consular corps, mission official) 
- Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) 
(Identity Card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
Pessoal Auxiliar de Missão Estrangeira 
(Auxiliary staff working in a foreign mission) 
- Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) 
(Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
Funcionário Admnistrativo de Missão Estrangeira 
(Administrative officer working in a foreign mission) 
- Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) 
(Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
Corpo Diplomático, Chefe de Missão 
(Diplomatic Corps, Head of mission) 
- Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) 
(Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
Corpo Diplomático, Funcionário de Missão 
(Diplomatic Corps, mission official) 
- Título de Residência 
(Residence Permit) 
- Autorização de Residência Temporária 
(Temporary Residence Authorisation) 
- Autorizaçåo de Residência Permanente 
(Permanent Residence Authorisation) 
- Autorização de Residência Vitalícia 
(Residence Authorisation valid for life) 
- Cartão de Identidade de Refugiado 
(Refugee Identity Card) 
- Autorização de Residência por razões humanitárias 
(Residence Authorisation on humanitarian grounds) 
- Cartão de Residência de nacional de um Estado-membro da Comunidade Europeia 
(Residence Permit of a national of an EC Member State) 
- Cartão de Residência Temporária 
(Temporary Residence Permit) 
- Cartão de Residência 
(Residence Permit) 
- Autorização de Permanência 
(Permit of Stay) 
SLOVENIA 
a) Dovoljenje za stalno prebivanje 
(Permanent residence permit) 
b) Dovoljenje za začasno prebivanje 
(Temporary residence permit) 
c) Osebna izkaznica za tujca 
(Identity card for foreigner) 
d) Osebna izkaznica prosilca za azil 
(Identity card for asylum applicant) 
e) Osebna izkaznica begunca 
(Identity card for refugee) 
f) Diplomatska izkaznica 
(Diplomatic pass issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
g) Službena izkaznica 
(Offical pass issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
h) Konzularna izkaznica 
(Consular pass issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
FINLAND 
- Pysyvä oleskelulupa 
(Permanent residence permit) in the form of a sticker 
- Oleskelulupa tai oleskelulupa ja työlupa 
(Temporary residence permit or temporary residence and work permit) in the form of a sticker clearly indicating the expiry date and bearing one of the following codes: 
A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5 
E.A.1, E.A.2, E.A.4, E.A.5 or 
B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 
E.B.1, E.B.2, E.B.3, E.B.4, or 
D.1 and D.2 
- Oleskelulupa uppehållstillstånd 
(Residence permit) in the form of a card issued to nationals of the Member States of the EU or the EEA and to members of their families 
- Henkilökortti A, B, C and D 
(Identity card) 
issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to diplomatic, administrative and technical staff, including members of their families 
- Oleskelulupa diplomaattileimaus tai olekelulupa virkaleimaus 
(Residence permit) in the form of a sticker issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, bearing the indication "diplomatic" (diplomaattileimaus) or "service" (virkaleimaus) 
- List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union 
SWEDEN 
- Permanent residence permit in the form of a sticker bearing the words "Sverige Permanent uppehållstillstånd. Utan tidsbegränsning" (Sweden — Permanent residence permit. No time-limit), affixed to the passport. 
- Temporary residence permit in the form of a sticker bearing the words "Sverige Uppehållstillstånd" (Sweden — Residence permit), affixed to the passport. 
- Residence permit in the form of a card issued to citizens of the EU/EEA and to members of their families, in the following categories: 
employees 
others 
parents who are not citizens of an EEA country 
- Residence permit in the form of a sticker issued by the Government Offices (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) (regeringskansliet (UD)) for foreign diplomats, members of the technical/administrative staff, service staff and private servants who are connected with embassies or consular posts in Sweden, and members of their families. 
ICELAND 
- Tímabundið atvinnu- og dvalarleyfi 
(Temporary work and residence permit) 
- Dvalarleyfi með rétti til atvinnuþátttöku 
(Residence permit giving the right to work) 
- Óbundið dvalarleyfi 
(Permanent residence permit) 
- Leyfi til vistráðningar 
(Au-pair's permit) 
- Atvinnu- og dvalarleyfi námsmanns 
(Student's work and residence permit) 
- Óbundið atvinnu- og dvalarleyfi 
(Permanent work and residence permit) 
- Special residence permits issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 
- Diplómatískt Persónuskilríki 
(Diplomatic identity card) 
- Persónuskilríki 
(Identity card) 
- Takmarkað dvalarleyfi fyrir varnarliðsmann, sbr. lög nr. 110/1951 og lög nr. 82/2000 
(Temporary residence permit for civilian or military members of the United States' armed forces and their dependants, in accordance with Law No 110/1951 and Law No 82/2000) 
- Takmarkað dvalarleyfi 
(Temporary residence permit) 
NORWAY 
- Oppholdstillatelse 
(Residence permit) 
- Arbeidstillatelse 
(Work permit) 
- Bosettingstillatelse 
(Settlement permit/Permanent work and residence permit) 
Residence permits issued before 25 March 2000 are distinguished by the presence of stamps (not stickers) in the bearers' travel documents. For foreign nationals subject to a visa requirement, these stamps are accompanied by a Norwegian visa sticker for the period of validity of the residence permit. Residence permits issued after Schengen is brought into force on 25 March 2001 will have a sticker. If a foreign national's travel document has an old stamp in it, this will remain valid until such time as the Norwegian authorities have to replace the stamps with the new sticker to be affixed to the residence permit. 
The abovementioned permits are not valid as travel documents. In cases where the foreign national needs a travel document, one of the two following documents may be used as a supplement to the work-, residence- or settlement permit: 
- A refugee's travel document ("Reisebevis" — blue) 
- An immigrant's passport ("Utlendingspass" — green). 
The holder of one of these travel documents is guaranteed to be permitted to re-enter Norway while the document remains valid. 
- EEA card 
issued to EEA nationals and members of their families who are third-country nationals. These cards are always laminated. 
- Identitetskort for diplomater 
(Identity card for diplomats — red) 
- Identitetskort for hjelpepersonale ved diplomatisk stasjon 
(Identity card for auxiliary staff — brown) 
- Identitetskort for administrativt og teknisk personale ved diplomatisk stasjon 
(Identity card for administrative and technical staff — blue) 
- Identitetskort for utsendte konsuler 
(Identity card for consuls — green) 
- Residence/visa sticker 
issued to holders of diplomatic, service and official passports who are subject to the visa requirement and staff of foreign missions who hold a national passport 
[1] This document ceased to be issued on 1.7.2003. 
[2] This document remains valid until its expiry date. It ceased to be issued on 2.6.2001. 
[3] It is planned to replace this type of residence permit by the "stand-alone" document provided for in Council Regulation No 1030/2002. Immediately after this change Member States will be notified accordingly. 
[4] Idem. 
[5] Idem. 
[6] Idem. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 5 
RESTREINT UE 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 6 
List of honorary consuls authorised to issue uniform visas in exceptional cases and on a temporary basis 
In accordance with the decision taken by the Ministers and Secretaries of State at the meeting of 15 December 1992, all the Schengen States accepted that the following honorary consul would be authorised to issue uniform visas for the period specified below. 
[no entries] 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 7 [1] 
Reference amounts determined annually by the national authorities for the crossing of borders 
BELGIUM 
Belgian law lays down general provisions for the verification of adequate means of subsistence, without specifying any mandatory rules. 
The administrative practice is as follows: 
— Aliens staying with a private individual 
Proof of means of subsistence may be furnished by means of a letter of guarantee signed by the person accommodating the alien in Belgium and authenticated by the municipal administration of his place of residence. 
The declaration of liability covers the costs of the alien's stay, health care, accommodation and repatriation in the event that the alien is unable to pay, so as to ensure that the public authorities do not have to bear them. The declaration must be signed by a person who is solvent and, if this person is an alien, is in possession of a residence permit or establishment permit. 
If necessary, the alien may also be required to furnish proof of personal resources. 
If he is without any financial credit at all, he must have access to approximately EUR 38 for each day of the planned stay. 
— Aliens staying at a hotel 
If the alien is unable to furnish proof of any credit at all, he must have access to approximately EUR 50 for each day of the planned stay. 
In most cases, the person concerned must in addition produce a ticket (air ticket) enabling him to return to his country of origin or residence. 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Reference amounts are fixed by Act No 326/1999 Sb. on Residence of Aliens in the Territory of the Czech Republic and Amendments of Some Acts. 
According to Section 5 of the Act on Residence of Aliens in the Territory of the Czech Republic on the request of the Police, an alien shall be obliged to submit a document confirming that funds are available for his/her stay in the Territory (Section 13) or a certified invitation not older than 90 days from the date of its certification by the Police (Sections 15 and 180), 
Section 13 provides the following: 
"Funds to Cover the Stay in the Territory 
(1) Unless provided otherwise below, the following shall be submitted to prove the availability of funds for the stay in the Territory: 
funds amounting at least to the following: 
- 0,5 times the subsistence minimum set out under a special legal regulation as required to cover maintenance and other basic personal needs (hereinafter the "Subsistence Minimum for Personal Needs") per day of stay if the total period of stay is not to exceed 30 days, 
- 15 times the Subsistence Minimum for Personal Needs if the period of stay in the Territory is to exceed 30 days while this sum shall be increased to double the subsistence minimum for each whole month of expected stay in the Territory, 
- 50 times the Subsistence Minimum for Personal Needs in case of stay for the purposes of business activity the total period of which is to exceed 90 days, or 
- a document confirming the payment of services connected with the stay of the alien in the Territory or a document confirming that services will be provided free of charge. 
(2) Instead of funds as referred to in sub-section 1, the following may be used to prove the availability of funds for the stay in the Territory: 
(a) a bank account statement in the name of the alien confirming that the alien is free to use funds in the amount as referred to in sub-section 1 during his stay in the Czech Republic; or 
(b) another document to certify that funds are available, such as a valid internationally recognised credit card. 
(3) An alien who will study in the Territory may submit, as proof of availability of funds for his stay, a commitment by a state authority or a legal entity to cover the stay of the alien by providing funds equivalent to the Subsistence Minimum for Personal Needs for 1 month of expected stay, or a document confirming that all costs related to his studies and stay shall be covered by the receiving organisation (school). If the sum referred to in the undertaking does not reach this amount, the alien shall be obliged to submit a document proving the ownership of funds equivalent to the difference between the Subsistence Minimum for Personal Needs and the amount of the commitment for the period of his expected stay, however, not more than 6 times the Subsistence Minimum for Personal Needs. Document on the provision of means for one's residence may be replaced by a decision or an agreement on the allocation of a grant acquired pursuant to an international treaty by which the Czech Republic is bound. 
(4) An alien who has not attained 18 years shall be obliged to prove the availability of funds for his stay pursuant to sub-section 1 equivalent to a half of the amount." 
and Section 15 provides the following: 
"Invitation 
In an invitation, the person inviting an alien shall undertake to cover the costs: 
(a) related to the maintenance of the alien throughout his stay in the Territory until he leaves the Territory; 
(b) related to the accommodation of the alien throughout his stay in the Territory until he leaves the Territory; 
(c) related to the provision of healthcare to the alien throughout his stay in the Territory until he leaves the Territory, and the transfer of the alien when ill or of the remains of the deceased; 
(d) arising to the Police in connection with the alien staying in the Territory and leaving the Territory in case of administrative expulsion." 
DENMARK 
Under the Danish Aliens Law, an alien entering Danish territory must have means adequate for his subsistence and for the return journey. 
In each case it is for the border control services at the point of entry to determine whether this is the case by conducting a specific appraisal of the economic situation of the alien, taking account of information on his or her possibilities with regard to accommodation and the return journey. 
For the purpose of determining whehter an alien has adequate means, the administration has set a figure for adequate means of subsistence of, in principle, of DKK 350 per 24 hours. This is the sum which the alien must have at his disposal 
In addition, the alien must be able to prove that he or she has adequate means for the return journey, for example in the form of a return ticket. 
GERMANY 
Pursuant to Article 15(2) of the Residence Act of 30 July 2004, an alien may be refused entry at the border if he does not fulfil the conditions for entry into the territory of the Member States in accordance with Article 5 of the Schengen Convention. This is the case if an alien does not have the necessary financial means, or cannot lawfully acquire the necessary means, to pay for his stay, including the return journey to his country of origin or a third country, for which he holds a residence permit entitling him to return to that country. 
Mandatory reference amounts per day have not been set. Instead, border control officials need to examine each situation individually. Account should be taken of the alien's personal circumstances, such as the nature and purpose of the journey, length of the stay, whether he is staying with relatives or friends, and subsistence costs. 
If the third-country national is unable to produce evidence of such circumstances or at least make credible statements, he should have EUR 45 per day at his disposal. It is also necessary to ensure that the third-country national's return or onward journey is possible. Proof may, for example, take the form of an onward or return travel ticket. 
Proof of financial means may take the form of cash, credit cards and checks but may also include: 
- a legal guarantee from a credit institution authorised to operate in the Federal Republic of Germany, 
- a letter of guarantee from the host, 
- a telegraphic money order, 
- a guarantee deposited by the host or a third party with the immigration authorities responsible for the stay, 
- sponsorship declaration 
If there is reason to doubt the alien's non-cash liquidity, the case should be examined prior to entry. 
ESTONIA 
Under Estonian law, aliens arriving into Estonia without a letter of invitation, shall upon request by a border guard official upon entry into the country provide proof of sufficient monetary means to cover the costs of his/her stay in and departure from Estonia. Sufficient monetary means for each allowed day is considered to be 0,2 times the monthly minimum salary implemented by the Government of the Republic. 
Otherwise the person inviting shall assume responsibility for the costs of the alien's stay in and departure from Estonia. 
GREECE 
Ministerial decree No 3011/2/1f of 11 January 1992 fixes the amount for the means of subsistence which foreign nationals — with the exception of nationals of the Member States of the European Community — must have at their disposal if they wish to enter Greek territory. 
Pursuant to the abovementioned ministerial decree, the amount of foreign currency enabling foreign nationals of non-member states of the European Community to enter Greece is fixed at the equivalent of EUR 20 in foreign currency per person per day, and a minimum total amount of EUR 100. 
The amount of foreign currency required per day is reduced by 50 % for minors who are members of the alien's family. 
Nationals of non-Community countries which oblige Greek nationals to change currency at the borders are also subject to this obligation in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. 
SPAIN 
Aliens must prove that they have the necessary means of subsistence. The minimum amount is given below: 
(a) for the costs of their stay in Spain: EUR 30, or the equivalent in foreign currency, multiplied by the planned number of days of the stay in Spain and by the number of family members travelling with the person concerned. Regardless of the planned duration of the stay, the minimum amount for which he must provide proof must always be EUR 300 per person. 
(b) for their return to the state of origin or for transit via third states: the nontransferable and fixed-date ticket or tickets, bearing the name, for the intended mode of transport. 
Aliens must prove that they have the above means of subsistence either by producing them if they are in cash, or by producing certified cheques, traveller's cheques, receipts, letters of credit or a bank certificate confirming the existence of these means. In the absence of these documents, any other supporting documents recognised by the Spanish border police authorities may be produced. 
FRANCE 
The reference amount for adequate means of subsistence for the planned duration of an alien's stay or for his transit via France to a destination in a third state is equal to the amount of the guaranteed minimum wage in France (SMIC) calculated daily on the basis of the rate fixed on 1 January of the current year. 
This amount is regularly reassessed on the basis of the French cost of living index: 
- automatically whenever the retail price index rises more than 2 %, 
- by a government decision — after consultation with the national commission for collective bargaining — to grant a rise higher than the rise in the retail price index. 
As of 1 July 2003, the daily amount of the SMIC (minimum wage) is EUR 50,40. 
Persons holding proof of accommodation ("attestation d'accueil") must possess a minimum amount of money, equivalent to half the SMIC, in order to stay in France. This amount is therefore EUR 25,20 per day. 
ITALY 
Article 4(3) of the "Consolidated text of provisions governing immigration and the status of aliens" No 286 of 28 July 1998 states that Italy, in accordance with the obligations entered into by adherence to specific international agreements, shall allow entry into its territory to aliens who can prove that they possess suitable documentation to confirm the purpose and conditions of their residence and that they have sufficient means of subsistence for the duration of their stay and, except in the case of residence permits for work purposes, for their return to the country of origin. Means of subsistence are defined in the relevant directive issued by the Minister for the Interior. Aliens who do not satisfy these requirements or who are considered a threat to national security or public order of the State or of one of the countries with which Italy has signed agreements for the abolition of internal border controls and the free movement of persons may not enter Italy, subject to the limits and derogations laid down in those agreements. 
The directive in question, which was issued on 1 March 2000 and has the title "Definition of means of support for entry and residence of aliens in the national territory", lays down that: 
- the availability of means of support may be demonstrated by producing currency or equivalent bills of exchange or bank guarantees or insurance policies guaranteeing payment, by means of documents attesting to prepaid services or documents proving the availability of sources of income in the national territory; 
- the monetary amounts laid down in the directive are to be reviewed annually, after application of the parameters relating to average annual variation produced by ISTAT and calculated on the basis of the general consumer price index for foodstuffs, drinks, transport and accommodation services; 
- the alien must indicate that he has suitable accommodation in Italian territory and that he possesses the sum needed for repatriation; he may also present a return ticket; 
- the minimum means of support needed per person for the issue of a visa and for entry to Italian territory for the purpose of tourism are defined in accordance with Table A below. 
Table A 
Table for determining the means of support required for entry to Italian territory for the purpose of tourism 
Duration of trip | Number of participants in trip | 
One participant | Two or more participants | 
euro | euro | 
1 to 5 days overall fixed sum | 269,60 | 212,81 | 
6 to 10 days daily sum per person | 44,93 | 26,33 | 
11 to 20 days fixed sum | 51,64 | 25,82 | 
+ daily sum per person | 36,67 | 22,21 | 
more than 20 days fixed sum | 206,58 | 118,79 | 
+ daily sum per person | 27,89 | 17,04 | 
CYPRUS 
According to the Aliens and Immigration Regulations (Regulation (9(2)(B)) the entry of aliens for temporary stay in the Republic depends on the discretionary power of the immigration officers at the borders, which is exercised according to the general or specific instructions of the Minister of Interior or to the provisions of the abovementioned Regulations. The immigration officers at the borders decide on the entry on a case by case basis, taking into consideration the purpose and length of stay, possible hotel reservations or hospitality by persons normally residing in Cyprus. 
LATVIA 
Article 81 of Cabinet of Ministers' Regulation No 131 of 6 April 1999, as amended by Cabinet of Ministers' Regulation No 124 of 19 March 2002, stipulates that upon the request of an official of the State Border Guard, an alien or a stateless person shall present the documents referred to in subparagraphs 67.2.2 and 67.2.8 of these Regulations: 
"67.2.2. a health resort or travel voucher confirmed in accordance with the regulatory enactments of the Republic of Latvia, or a tourist carnet prepared pursuant to a specified pattern and issued by the Alliance of International Tourism (AIT); 
67.2.8. for the receipt of a single entry visa: 
67.2.8.1. traveller's cheques in the convertible currency or cash in LVL or in convertible currency corresponding to LVL 60 for each day; if the person presents the documents proving the payment already made for a certified place of accommodation for the whole duration of his/her stay — traveller's cheques in the convertible currency or cash in LVL or in convertible currency corresponding to LVL 25 for each day; 
67.2.8.2. a document which certifies the reservation of a certified place of accommodation; 
67.2.8.3. a round trip ticket with fixed dates." 
According to the Immigration Law, in order to be able to enter and stay in the Republic of Latvia an alien must prove that he or she has the necessary means of subsistence. 
The following amounts are required: 
- the daily amount required is LVL 10, if the inviter provides an alien with accommodation and no extra resources are needed for accommodation; 
- if the alien has booked a hotel reservation, the means of subsistence are computed based on the hotel charge, taking into account that the total of per diem and accommodation fee shall be at least LVL 20 per day. 
In cases when the electronic information system — invitation data base — contains information that the inviter will cover the expenses related to the alien's entrance and stay in the Republic of Latvia, the aliens applying for visas do not have to submit the documents proving availability of the means of subsistence required for entrance and stay in the Republic of Latvia. 
LITHUANIA 
Under the Law on the Legal Status of Aliens, an alien entering the territory of the Republic of Lithuania if necessary must prove that he has adequate means of subsistence or the sources of those means for the stay in the Republic of Lithuania, a return trip to his country or for proceeding to another country which he has the right to enter. 
For the purpose of determining whether the alien has adequate means of susbsistence, the Ministry of Social Security and Labour has set the appropriate amounts of financial means per 24 hours which the alien must have at his disposal: 
1) 40 litas, for alien who enters the Republic of Lithuania with the visa, which is issued only if the invitation by Lithuanian natural or legal person is provided; 
2) 140 litas, for alien who enters the Republic of Lithuania with the visa, for which the invitation by Lithuanian natural or legal person is not required; 
3) 15 litas, for alien who is eligible to obtain a permit of temporary residence in the Republic of Lithuania as well as for each member of his family; 
4) 40 litas, for aliens who are eligible to obtain a permit of temporary residence in the Republic of Lithuania because they register in the prescribed manner an enterprise of foreign capital with the authorised capital or the value of shares held at least 250000 litas; they come to the Republic of Lithuania to undertake scientific research or take up teaching positions at institutions of higher education, research or educational institutions; they have been issued a permit of work in the Republic of Lithuania; 
5) 20 litas, for aliens who are eligible to obtain a permit of temporary residence in the Republic of Lithuania because they have been enrolled as students at an educational institution or for training in the Republic of Lithuania; they are students coming to the Republic of Lithuania for a period of one year on study visits or to work under international mobility programmes administered by public (non-governmental) organisations. 
The amount of the means of subsistence required is reduced by 50 % for children and adoptees of the alien, who are under the age of 18. 
LUXEMBOURG 
The law of Luxembourg does not provide for any reference amount for border controls. The official conducting the check decides on a case-by-case basis whether an alien arriving at the border has adequate means of subsistence. In this regard the official takes particular account of the purpose of the stay and the type of accommodation. 
HUNGARY 
A reference amount is specified in the aliens policing legislation: under Decree No 25/2001. (XI. 21.) of the Minister of Interior, currently at least HUF 1000 is required upon each entry. 
Under Article 5 of the Aliens Act (Act XXXIX of 2001 on the Entry and Stay of Foreigners), the means of subsistence required for entry and stay may be certified by the presentation of: 
- Hungarian currency or foreign currency or non-cash means of payment (e.g. cheque, credit card etc.), 
- a valid letter of invitation issued by a Hungarian national, an alien holding a residence permit or settlement permit or a legal entity if the person inviting the alien declares to cover the costs of the accommodation, lodging, health care and return (repatriation). The official consent of the aliens policing authority shall be attached to the letter of invitation, 
- confirmation of board and lodging reserved and paid in advance by means of a travel agency (voucher), 
- any other credible proof. 
MALTA 
It is the practice to ensure that persons entering Malta have a minimum amount of MTL 20 (EUR 48) per day for the duration of their visit. 
THE NETHERLANDS 
The amount which border control officials take as the basis when checking means of subsistence is currently EUR 34 per person per day. 
This criterion is applied flexibly, since the required amount of the means of subsistence is determined on the basis of the planned duration of the stay, the reason for the visit and the personal circumstances of the person concerned. 
AUSTRIA 
Pursuant to Article 52(2) Z 4 of the Aliens Act, aliens shall be refused entry at the border if they have no place of residence in Austria and do not have sufficient means of subsistence to meet the costs of their stay and return. 
However, there are no reference amounts for the above. Decisions are made on a case-by-case basis depending on the purpose, type and duration of the stay. Cash and — depending on individual circumstances — traveller's cheques, credit cards, bank guarantees or letters of guarantee from solvent persons living in Austria may be accepted as proof. 
POLAND 
Amounts required for crossing borders are determined in the Ordinance of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration of 29 September 2003 on the amount of means to cover expenses concerning to entry, transit, stay and departure of aliens crossing the border of the Republic of Poland and detailed rules of documentation evidencing possession of these means (Dz.U. 2003, No. 178, poz. 1748 and No. 232, poz. 2341). 
Amounts indicated in the above regulation are as follows: 
- PLN 100 per day of stay for persons over 16 years old, but not less then 500 PLN, 
- PLN 50 per day of stay for persons under 16 years old, but not less then 300 PLN, 
- PLN 20 per day of stay, but not less then 100 PLN, for persons participating in tourist trips, youth camps, sport competitions or having costs of stay in Poland covered or arriving to Poland for health treatment in a sanatorium, 
- PLN 300 for persons over 16 years old, whose stay in Poland does not exceed 3 days (including transit), 
- PLN 150 for persons under 16 years old, whose stay in Poland does not exceed 3 days (including transit). 
Aliens must prove that they have the above means of subsistence either by producing them in cash, or by producing: 
- traveler's check or credit card, 
- a letter of legal guarantee from a Polish bank (confirming the existence of these means), 
- a letter of guarantee from the host. 
PORTUGAL 
Aliens must be in possession of the following amounts if they wish to enter or stay in Portugal: 
EUR 75 — for each entry 
EUR 40 — for each day spent on the territory 
Aliens who are able to prove that their board and lodging are guaranteed for the duration of their stay may be exempted from paying the above amounts. 
SLOVENIA 
According to article 7 of the Instructions on refusing entry to aliens, conditions for issuing visas at border crossings, conditions for issuing visas for humanitarian reasons and procedure for revoking visas (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 2/01 — hereinafter referred to as "Instructions"), an alien has to, prior to entry into the country and upon request of a police officer, provide information regarding the way in which means of subsistence and return to the home country or further travel to the third country will be secured for the time of the alien's stay in the Republic of Slovenia. 
As an adequate proof of existence of the required means of subsistence an alien has to present the prescribed amount of money in cash, or traveller's checks, internationally recognized debit or credit cards, letters of credit, or any other verified proof of existence of such means in the Republic of Slovenia. 
As an adequate proof that an alien may return to his home country or may travel to the third country, an alien has to submit either paid travel tickets or sufficient means to pay travel expenses. 
The adequate amount of cash is obtained by multiplying the daily means of subsistence by the number of days an alien is staying in the Republic of Slovenia. If alien doesn't have secured means of subsistence (family, paid accommodation within a tourist package, etc...), the daily means shall be fixed at EUR 70, converted in SIT according to the valid exchange daily rate. 
The prescribed amount for minors accompanied by their parents or legal representatives shall consist of 50 % of the prescribed amount in the previous paragraph. 
SLOVAKIA 
Pursuant to Article 4(2)(c) of Act No 48/2002 Z. z. on the Stay of Aliens, an alien is obliged, upon request, to prove he or she has a financial amount for the stay, in convertible currency, corresponding to at least half the minimum wage provided for in Act No 90/1996 Z. z. on minimum wage, as amended, for each day of the stay; an alien younger than 16 years old is obliged to prove he or she has the financial means for the stay corresponding to half of this. 
FINLAND 
According to the Aliens' Act (301/2004, paragraph 11) an alien shall upon entry prove sufficient means of subsistence, considering both the length of intended stay and return to the country of departure, or transit to a third country to which his/her admittance is guaranteed, or that such funds can legally be acquired. Sufficient funds are deemed on a case by case basis. In addition to the funds, or tickets, required for the departure and accommodation during the stay, approximately EUR 30 per day is considered necessary, depending on the arrangements for accommodation and a possible sponsor. 
SWEDEN 
Swedish law does not lay down a reference amount for the crossing of borders. The border control officer decides on a case-by-case basis whether the alien has adequate means of subsistence. 
ICELAND 
Under Icelandic law, aliens must prove that they have enough money to meet their needs in Iceland and to make the return journey. In practice, the reference amount is ISK 4000 per person. If the expenses connected with the stay are borne by a third party, the amount is halved. The total minimum amount is ISK 20000 for each entry. 
NORWAY 
Under Article 27(d) of the Norwegian Immigration Law, any foreign national who is unable to prove that he or she has adequate funds for his or her stay in the Kingdom and for the return journey, or that he or she can count on such funds, may be refused entry at the border. 
The amounts deemed necessary are fixed individually and decisions are taken on a case-by-case basis. Account is taken of the length of stay, whether the foreign national will be staying with family or friends, whether he or she has a ticket for the return journey and whether a guarantee has been given for the stay (as an indication, an amount of NOK 500 per day is deemed to be adequate for visitors who are not staying with relations or friends). 
[1] This annex shall be repealed when the European Parliament and Council Regulation establishing a Community Code on the rules governing the movement of persons accross the borders (Schengen Borders code) enters into force.The Schengen Borders code is likely to enter into force mid-2006. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 8 
Uniform format for visa stickers and information on their technical specifications and security features 
The technical and security features for the visa sticker format are contained in, or adopted on the basis of, Council Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 of 29 May 1995 laying down a uniform format for visas [1], as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 334/2002 [2]. 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 1683/95 
of 29 May 1995 
laying down a uniform format for visas 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, in particular Article 100c (3) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, 
Whereas Article 100c (3) of the Treaty requires the Council to adopt measures relating to a uniform format for visas before 1 January 1996; 
Whereas the introduction of a uniform format for visas is an important step towards the harmonization of visa policy; whereas Article 7a of the Treaty stipulates that the internal market shall comprise an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of persons is ensured in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty; whereas this step is also to be regarded as forming a coherent whole with measures falling within Title VI of the Treaty on European Union; 
Whereas it is essential that the uniform format for visas should contain all the necessary information and meet very high technical standards, notably as regards safeguards against counterfeiting and falsification; whereas it must also be suited to use by all the Member States and bear universally recognizable security features which are clearly visible to the naked eye; 
Whereas this Regulation only lays down such specifications as are not secret; whereas these specifications need to be supplemented by further specifications which must remain secret in order to prevent counterfeiting and falsification and which may not include personal data or references to such data; whereas powers to adopt further specifications should be conferred on the Commission; 
Whereas, to ensure that the information referred to is not made available to more persons than necessary, it is also essential that each Member State should designate not more than one body having responsibility for printing the uniform format for visas, with Member States remaining free to change the body, if need be; whereas, for security reasons, each Member State must communicate the name of the competent body to the Commission and the other Member States; 
Whereas, to be effective, this Regulation should apply to all visas covered by Article 5; whereas Member States should be free also to use the uniform visa format for visas which can be used for purposes other than those covered by Article 5 provided differences visible to the naked eye are incorporated to make confusion with the uniform visa impossible; 
Whereas, with regard to the personal data to be entered on the uniform format for visas in accordance with the Annex hereto, compliance should be ensured with Member States' data-protection provisions as well as with the relevant Community legislation, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Visas issued by the Member States in conformity with Article 5 shall be produced in the form of a uniform format (sticker). They shall conform to the specifications set out in the Annex. 
Article 2 
Further technical specifications which render the visa difficult to counterfeit or falsify shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 6. 
Article 3 
1. The specifications referred to in Article 2 shall be secret and not be published. They shall be made available only to bodies designated by the Member States as responsible for printing and to persons duly authorized by a Member State or the Commission. 
2. Each Member State shall designate one body having responsibility for printing visas. It shall communicate the name of that body to the Commission and the other Member States. The same body may be designated by two or more Member States for this purpose. Each Member State shall be entitled to change its designated body. It shall inform the Commission and the other Member States accordingly. 
Article 4 
1. Without prejudice to the relevant more extensive provisions concerning data protection, an individual to whom a visa is issued shall have the right to verify the personal particulars entered on the visa and, where appropriate, to ask for any corrections or deletions to be made. 
2. No information in machine-readable form shall be given on the uniform format for visas unless it also appears in the boxes described in points 6 to 12 of the Annex, or unless it is mentioned in the relevant travel document. 
Article 5 
For the purposes of this Regulation a 'visa' shall mean an authorization given by or a decision taken by a Member State which is required for entry into its territory with a view to: 
- an intended stay in that Member State or in several Member States of no more than three months in all, 
- transit through the territory or airport transit zone of that Member State or several Member States. 
Article 6 
1. Where reference is made to the procedure defined in this Article, the following provisions shall apply. 
2. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission. 
The representative of the Commission shall submit to the committee a draft of the measures to be taken. The committee shall deliver its opinion on the draft within a time limit which the chairman may lay down according to the urgency of the matter. The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission. The votes of the representatives of the Member States within the committee shall be weighted in the manner set out in that Article. The chairman shall not vote. 
3. (a) The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the committee. 
(b) If the measures envisaged are not in accordance with the opinion of the committee, or if no opinion is delivered, the Commission shall, without delay, submit to the Council a proposal relating to the measures to be taken. The Council shall act by a qualified majority. 
If, on the expiry of a period of two months, the Council has not acted, the proposed measures shall be adopted by the Commission, save where the Council has decided against the said measures by a simple majority. 
Article 7 
Where Member States use the uniform visa format for purposes other than those covered by Article 5, appropriate measures must be taken to ensure that confusion with the visa referred to in Article 5 is not possible. 
Article 8 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
Article 1 shall become applicable six months after the adoption of the measures referred to in Article 2. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 
Done at Brussels, 29 May 1995. 
For the Council 
The President 
H. de Charette 
ANNEX 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Security features 
1. A sign consisting of nine ellipses in a fan-shape shall appear in this space. 
2. An optically variable mark ('kinegram' or equivalent) shall appear in this space. Depending on the angle of view, 12 stars, the letter 'E' and a globe become visible in various sizes and colours. 
3. The logo consisting of a letter or letters indicating the issuing Member State (or 'BNL' in the case of the Benelux countries, namely Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) with a latent image effect shall appear in this space. This logo shall appear light when held flat and dark when turned by 90o. The following logos shall be used: A for Austria, BNL for Benelux, D for Germany, DK for Denmark, E for Spain, F for France, FIN for Finland, GR for Greece, I for Italy, IRL for Ireland, P for Portugal, S for Sweden, UK for the United Kingdom. 
4. The word 'visa' in capital letters shall appear in the middle of this space in optically variable colouring. Depending on the angle of view, it shall appear green or red. 
5. This box shall contain the number of the visa, which shall be pre-printed and shall begin with the letter or letters indicating the issuing country as described in point 3 above. A special type shall be used. 
Sections to be completed 
6. This box shall begin with the words 'valid for'. The issuing authority shall indicate the territory or territories for which the visa is valid. 
7. This box shall begin with the word 'from' and the word 'until' shall appear further along the line. The issuing authority shall indicate here the period of validity of the visa. 
8. This box shall begin with the words 'number of entries' and further along the line the words 'duration of stay' (i.e. duration of applicants' intended stay) and again 'days' shall appear. 
9. This box shall begin with the words 'issued in' and shall be used to indicate the place of issue. 
10. This box shall begin with the word 'on' (after which the date of issue shall be filled in by the issuing authority) and further along the line the words 'number of passport' shall appear (after which the holder's passport number shall appear). 
11. This box shall begin with the words 'type of visa'. The issuing authority shall indicate the category of visa in conformity with Articles 5 and 7 of this Regulation. 
12. This box shall begin with the word 'remarks'. It shall be used by the issuing authority to indicate any further information which is considered necessary, provided that it complies with Article 4 of this Regulation. The following two and a half lines shall be left empty for such remarks. 
13. This box shall contain the relevant machine-readable information to facilitate external border controls. 
The paper shall be pastel green with red and blue markings. 
The words designating the boxes shall appear in English and French. The issuing State may add a third official Community language. However, the word 'visa' in the top line may appear in any one official language of the Community. 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 334/2002 
of 18 February 2002 
amending Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 laying down a uniform format for visas 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 62(2)(b)(iii) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission [3], 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament [4], 
Whereas: 
(1) Council Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 [5] laid down a uniform format for visas. 
(2) Measure No 38 of the Vienna Action Plan, adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 3 December 1998, states that attention must be given to new technical developments in order to ensure, where appropriate, greater security in the uniform format for visas. 
(3) Conclusion No 22 of the Tampere European Council of 15 and 16 October 1999 states that a common active policy on visas and false documents should be further developed. 
(4) The establishment of a uniform visa format is an essential element in the harmonisation of visa policy. 
(5) It is necessary to make provision for the establishment of common standards relating to the implementation of the uniform format for visas, in particular common rules on the technical methods and standards to be used for filling in the form. 
(6) The integration of a photograph produced according to high security standards is a first step towards the use of elements establishing a more reliable link between the uniform format visa and the holder as an important contribution to ensuring that the uniform format for visas is protected even against fraudulent use. The specifications set out in ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation) document 9303 on machine readable visas will be taken into account. 
(7) Common standards relating to the implementation of the uniform format for visas are essential to meet high technical standards and to facilitate detection of forged or falsified visa stickers. 
(8) The powers to adopt such common standards should be conferred on the Committee set up by Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 which should be adapted to take account of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission [6]. 
(9) Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 should therefore be amended. 
(10) The measures provided for in this Regulation to make the uniform format for visas more secure do not affect the rules currently governing recognition of the validity of travel documents. 
(11) The conditions governing entry into the territory of the Member States or the issue of visas do not affect the rules currently governing recognition of the validity of travel documents. 
(12) As regards the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, this Regulation constitutes a development of the provisions of the Schengen acquis falling within the area referred to in Article 1, point B, of Council Decision 1999/437/EC of 17 May 1999 on certain arrangements for the application of the Agreement concluded by the Council of the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the association of those two States with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis [7]. 
(13) In accordance with Article 3 of the Protocol on the position of the United Kingdom and Ireland annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, the United Kingdom gave notice, by letter of 4 December 2001, of its wish to take part in the adoption and application of this Regulation. 
(14) In accordance with Article 1 of the Protocol on the position of the United Kingdom and Ireland annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Ireland is not participating in the adoption of this Regulation. As a result, and without prejudice to Article 4 of the said Protocol, the provisions of this Regulation do not apply to Ireland, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 is hereby amended as follows: 
1. Article 2 shall be replaced by the following: 
"Article 2 
1. Further technical specifications for the uniform format for visas relating to the following shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 6(2): 
(a) additional elements and security requirements including enhanced anti-forgery, counterfeiting and falsification standards; 
(b) technical standards and methods to be used for the filling in of the uniform visa. 
2. The colours of the visa sticker may be changed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 6(2)." 
2. Article 6 shall be replaced by the following: 
"Article 6 
1. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. 
2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC [8] shall apply. 
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at two months. 
3. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure." 
3. The following subparagraph shall be added to Article 8: "The integration of the photograph provided for in point 2a of the Annex shall be implemented at the latest five years after the adoption of the technical measures provided for the adoption of this measure in Article 2." 
4. The following point shall be inserted in the Annex: 
"2a. An integrated photograph produced according to high security standards." 
Article 2 
The first sentence of Annex 8 of the final version of the Common Consular Instructions and Annex 6 of the final version of the Common Manual as they stand following the Decision of the Schengen Executive Committee of 28 April 1999 [9] shall be replaced by the following: 
"The technical and security features for the visa sticker format are contained in, or adopted on the basis of, Council Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 of 29 May 1995 laying down a uniform format for visas [10], as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 334/2002 [11]." 
Article 3 
This Regulation shall not affect the powers of the Member States regarding recognition of States and territorial entities and passports, identity documents and travel documents issued by their authorities. 
Article 4 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
Done at Brussels, 18 February 2002. 
For the Council 
The President 
J. Piqué i Camps 
[1] OJ L 164, 14.7.1995, p. 1. 
[2] OJ L 53, 23.2.2002, p. 7. 
[3] OJ C 180 E, 26.6.2001, p. 310. 
[4] Opinion delivered on 12 December 2001 (not yet published in the Official Journal). 
[5] OJ L 164, 14.7.1995, p. 1. 
[6] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. 
[7] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 31. 
[8] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. 
[9] OJ L 239, 22.9.2000, p. 317. 
[10] OJ L 164, 14.7.1995, p. 1. 
[11] OJ L 53, 23.2.2002, p. 7. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 9 
Information to be entered by the Contracting Parties, if necessary, in the "comments" section [1] 
BENELUX 
Common data which may be entered when an A, B, C or D+C visa is issued: 
BNL 1: visa issued following authorisation by the central authorities. 
BNL 2: visa issued ex officio. 
BNL 3 + name of the border point of entry and/or the date of entry: this code will only be indicated for security reasons in exceptional cases. 
BNL 4: visa issued in the framework of representation following consultation of the represented State. 
BNL 5 + 
x days: 
the visa holder must report to the police within "x days". 
BNL 6: 
accompanying children excepted 
If this code is not entered under this heading, the visa is valid for all the persons mentioned on the passport. 
BNL 7 + 
name and date of birth of the accompanying child(ren): 
where there is uncertainty about the relationship between the passport holder and the accompanying child(ren), the Benelux post may indicate the number of children under the heading "Passport number". The name and date of birth of the accompanying child(ren) entered in the passport can also be indicated. This code and information can be added to prevent names being added to the passport of the person accompanying this child/these children following issue of the visa. 
BNL 8: 
visa issued for "medical treatment". 
If appropriate, the nam e of the hospital in question can be added to this code. 
BNL 9: NO INSURANCE REQUIRED. [2] 
BNL 10: visa issued for "study purposes". 
BNL 11: visa issued for the purpose of "family reunification". 
BNL 12: visa issued for "professional purposes". 
BNL 13: visa issued for "business purposes". 
BNL 14: visa issued with a view to "adoption". 
Specific national details which should be indicated: 
— for Belgium when a D visa or provisional residence authorisation is issued: 
B1 : provisional residence authorisation, stay limited to duration of studies + Article 58, Law of 15.12.1980 
B2 : enrolled at (name of the educational establishment) 
B3 : admitted to studies at (name of the educational establishment) 
B4 : request for diploma equivalence 
B5 : registered for admission test 
B6 : provisional residence authorisation, stay limited to duration of study grant (enter duration of study grant) 
B7 : provisional residence authorisation, stay limited to duration of exchange (enter duration of exchange) 
B8 : private school — temporary stay limited to the duration of course at (name of the educational establishment) + Articles 9 and 13, Law of 15.12.1980 
B9 : secondary studies — stay limited to duration of school year + Articles 9 and 13, Law of 15.12.1980 
B10 : student family reunification — stay limited to duration of studies of spouse/father/mother + Article 10a, Law of 15.12.1980 
B11 : family reunification — Article 10, paragraph 1, 4o, Law of 15.12.1980 
B12 : Articles 9 and 13, stay limited to the duration of the activity exempting visa holder from the work permit or self-employed work permit requirement + (enter: duration of assignment, of research, of employment contract, of training period or of training course) 
B13 : Articles 9 and 13, stay limited to six months + self-employed activity in the framework of an association agreement 
B14 : Articles 9 and 13, stay limited to duration of work permit + 1 month 
B15 : Articles 9 and 13, stay limited to duration of self-employed work permit 
B16 : Articles 9 and 13, stay limited to eight months 
B17 : temporary stay limited to 1 year + Articles 9 and 13, Law of 15.12.1980 
B18 : stay limited to six months 
B19 : temporary stay — cohabitation + Articles 9 and 13, Law of 15.12.1980 
B20 : family reunification — Article 40, Law of 15.12.1980 
B21 : family reunification — Article 10, paragraph 1, 1o, Law of 15.12.1980 
B22 : family reunification — return visa 
B23 : temporary stay limited to six months with a view to adoption + extension of stay will be granted following authorisation by the Aliens Office if significant progress has been made in the adoption procedure (consultation of the adoption act drawn up in Belgium + recognition of this act or final foreign decision pronouncing adoption) 
B24 : temporary stay limited to 1 year — working holiday + Articles 9 and 13, Law of 15.12.1980 
B25 : Royal Decree of 20.10.1991 (This code MUST ALWAYS be entered on visas issued to aliens sent to Belgium with a view to filling a post at an embassy, consulate, representation or international institution, as well as to their family members, spouse and dependent children. Reminder: this is ALWAYS a C visa) 
B26 : right of return — provisional residence authorisation — Article 19, Law of 15.12.1980 
B27 : authorisation to return after 1 year — provisional residence authorisation — Article 9, Law of 15.12.1980 + Royal Decree of 07.08.1995 
B28 : family reunification — Article 10, paragraph 1, 4o, Law of 15.12.1980 — stay limited to spouse's stay; 
— for the Netherlands when an A, B, C, D+C and D visa or provisional residence authorisation is issued: 
the alien's number; 
— for Luxembourg when a D or D+C visa is issued: 
L01 : employee 
L02 : self-employed 
L03 : no occupation (retired, private means) 
L04 : student (post-secondary education) 
L05 : scientific researcher 
L06 : family member of EU national 
L07 : spouse (third State) 
L08 : future spouse (third State) 
L09 : family reunification — relation in the ascending line (third State) 
L10 : family reunification — relation in the descending line (third State) 
L11 : child for adoption 
L12 : medical treatment 
L13 : humanitarian grounds 
L14 : other. 
DENMARK 
Danish representations may enter the following comments: 
"Gælder for Færøerne" (valid for the Faroe Islands) 
or 
"Gælder for Grønland" (valid for Greenland) 
or 
"Gælder for Færøerne og Grønland" (valid for the Faroe Islands and Greenland) 
"Ansat hos [virksomhedens navn] [navn på modtageren af tjenesteydelsen]" (employed by [name of firm] [name of service recipient]) 
"Garanti stillet" (guarantee provided). 
GERMANY 
1. The name of the official responsible for issuing visas 
2. In cases where there are security risks, especially if an alert exists for the arrest of the person, the German post will indicate, exceptionally, the name of the post and the date of entry. 
3. The sticker will exceptionally indicate the nationality of the holder of the visa and the passport, if this is not obvious from the passport. 
4. Endorsements for or restrictions upon B visas: 
- Transit (transit) 
- Transit Seeman (seaman in transit) 
5. Endorsements for or restrictions upon C visas: 
- Diplomatischer Kurier (diplomatic mail/courier) 
- Visa de Courtoisie (courtesy visa) 
- Visa de Courtoisie/Dienstreise (courtesy visa for travel on official business) 
- Gratis-Visum (visa free of charge) 
- Gratis-Visum/Dienstreise (visa free of charge for travel on official business) 
- Besuchs-/Geschäftsvisum (visit/business visa) 
- Touristisches Visum (tourist visa) 
- Medizinische Behandlung (medical treatment) 
- Erwerbstätigkeit nicht gestattet, Tätigkeiten gem. § ...i.V.m. § 16 BeschV gestattet (work prohibited, activities permitted pursuant to paragraph… in conjunction with paragraph 16 of the Employment Regulation) [3] 
- Nur selbständige Tätigkeiten nach § ... i.V.m § 16 BeschV gestattet (Only activities as a self-employed worker permitted under paragraph … in conjunction with paragraph 16 of the Employment Regulation) 
- R (+ code of represented State) 
- Nachweis der Krankenversicherung nicht erforderlich (proof of health insurance not required) [4] 
- ADS [5] 
- Nur in Begleitung des Arbeitgebers/der Familie (only accompanied by employer/family) 
- Teilnahme an Sportsveranstaltungen (participation in sporting events) 
6. Endorsements for or restrictions upon particular D [6], C and D+C visas: 
- Diplomatisches Visum (diplomatic visa) 
- Dienstliches Visum (service visa) 
- Studium, Beschäftigung nur gem. § 16 Abs. 3 AufenthG gestattet (study, employment permitted only as under paragraph 16(3) of the Residence Act) 
- Studienbewerbervisum (study applicant's visa) 
- Sprachkurs (language course) 
- Erwerbstätigkeit nicht gestattet (employment not permitted) 
- Sonstige Erwerbstätigkeit nicht gestattet (other employment not permitted) 
- Aufenthaltsanzeige nach Einreise (presence to be reported after entry) [7] 
- Selbständige Erwerbstätigkeit als …. gestattet (self-employment as …. [8] permitted) 
- Beschäftigung nur gem. § ... BeschV gestattet (employment permitted only as under paragraph … [9] of the Employment Regulation) 
- Beschäftigung nur gem. § 39 BeschV i.V.m. Werkvertragsarbeitnehmerkarte gestattet (employment permitted only as under paragraph 39 of the Employment Regulation in conjunction with the work contract worker card) 
- Visumerteilung nach "Van der Elst" (visa issued under the "Van der Elst" ruling) 
- Familienzusammenführung (family reunification) 
- Eheschließung und gemeinsame Wohnsitznahme (marriage and common residence) 
- Aufnahme nach § 23 Abs. 2 AufenthG (admission under paragraph 23(2) of the Residence Act) 
- Spätaussiedler (ethnic Germans returning from abroad in recent times) 
- mit Bedingungen/Auflagen versehen (subject to conditions/restrictions) [10] 
- Die Aufenthaltsdauer entspricht dem in Zeile 2 eingetragenen Gültigkeitszeitraum (length of stay to comply with the period of validity indicated in line 2) 
- ABH… (immigration authority) [11] 
GREECE [12] 
1. Stamp bearing the full name of the official responsible for issuing the visa. 
2. Signature of the official responsible for issuing the visa. 
3. Fees payable to cover the administrative costs of handling the visa application, or the endorsement "ΑΤΕΛΟΣ" (FREE). 
4. The visa holder's name, date and place of birth, nationality at birth, current nationality and passport number and the names of the visa-holder's parents, if this information is not given in the passport. 
5. The number of relatives entered in the visa holder's passport, and an indication of their relationship with the visa holder. 
6. If the children entered in the passport are not included in the visa, the words "ΕΚΤΟΣ ΑΠΟ ΤΑ ΤΕΚΝΑ" (NOT INCLUDING THE CHILDREN) will be entered in the visa. 
7. If some of the children entered in the passport are not included in the visa, the full names of the children travelling with their parents will be entered. 
8. The name(s) and date(s) of birth of the child/children referred to in the passport of the person accompanying them. 
9. In exceptional circumstances, for security reasons, the date of the person's entry and the name of the border post will be given. 
10. If there are objections from a Member State under the consultation procedure or, as a result of that procedure, there are delays in obtaining the necessary reply, it may be decided, after consultation of the Central Administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to issue a visa, which will then bear the words "ΕΙΔΙΚΗ ΘΕΩΡΗΣΗ ΥΠΕΞ/Γ4" (SPECIAL VISA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS/C4), followed by the reference number and date of the relevant authorisation e.g. ΑΣ 140361/09.02.05. 
11. If, despite the fact that the applicant appears on the list of non-admitted persons, it is decided after consultation of the Central Administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to issue a visa, that visa will bear the words "ΕΙΔΙΚΗ ΘΕΩΡΗΣΗ ΥΠΕΞ/Γ4" (SPECIAL VISA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS/C4), followed by the reference number and date of the relevant authorisation e.g. ΑΣ 140361/09.02.05. 
12. If the visa is issued entirely on the responsibility of the diplomatic or consular authority which received the application, without prior consultation of the Central Administration, then it will bear the words "ΕΙΔΙΚΗ ΘΕΩΡΗΣΗ" (SPECIAL VISA), followed by the name of the issuing authority e.g. Γεν. Προξενείο ΣΙΔΝΕΥ (Consulate General — SYDNEY). 
13. Depending on the purpose of the visit and the type of visa, the following may also be entered: 
1 | ADS = "APPROVED DESTINATION STATUS" | 
2 | SPORTING ACTIVITIES | 
3 | DIPLOMATIC VISA | 
4 | PROFESSIONAL REASONS | 
5 | RELIGIOUS REASONS | 
6 | MEDICAL REASONS | 
7 | SEAFARING | 
8 | TIR DRIVER | 
9 | FAMILY MEMBER OF EU/EEA NATIONAL | 
10 | FAMILY MEMBER OF GREEK NATIONAL | 
11 | CULTURAL ACTIVITIES | 
12 | INVITATION | 
13 | VIP | 
14 | CONFERENCE | 
15 | TOURISM | 
16 | ADOPTION | 
17 | NO INSURANCE REQUIRED | 
SPAIN 
1. Signature of the official responsible for issuing the visa. 
2. Signature-stamp showing the surnames and given names of the official who affixes the signature. 
3. The endorsement "CEUTA" or "MELILLA". These endorsements indicate that the territorial validity of the visa is limited exclusively to the towns of Ceuta and Melilla, pursuant to declaration III of the Final Act of Spain's accession to the Schengen Agreement and its Implementing Convention. 
4. If necessary, the name of the holder of the visa and the passport. 
5. If necessary, border point of entry and exact date of entry. 
6. Group of letters and numbers (up to 10 characters) showing the nationality of the applicant, the Spanish consulate dealing with the application, the type of visa and the reason for the visa application. 
7. Fees payable for issuing the visa. 
FRANCE 
1) Indications to appear on all types of visa 
- Name of signatory and signature 
- Cost of visa (for example "30 €") 
- If no payment is required, the indication "GRATIS" (FREE) will appear followed by an alphanumeric code indicating why there is no charge. 
2) Airport transit visas (VTA) 
- "VISA SPECIAL no..." (SPECIAL VISA no. ....) (indication used when a visa is issued even if the applicant appears on the list of non-admitted persons, following consultation with the central authorities) 
- "TRANSIT AÉROPORTUAIRE" (airport transit), "DIPLOMATIQUE" (diplomatic), "SERVICE" (service) 
- "NE PERMET PAS L'ENTREE DANS L'ESPACE SCHENGEN" (DOES NOT PERMIT ENTRY INTO THE SCHENGEN AREA). 
3) Transit visas 
a. The following can appear in the first heading: 
- "VISA SPECIAL no..." (SPECIAL VISA No. ...) 
- "TRANSIT", "DIPLOMATIQUE" (diplomatic), "SERVICE" (service). 
b. The following Schengen representation codes can appear in the second heading: 
- "REP. AUTRICHE.R A" (Austria) 
- "REP. BELGIQUE.R B" (Belgium) 
- "REP. ALLEMAGNE.R D" (Germany) 
- "REP. ESPAGNE.R E" (Spain) 
- "REP. GRECE.R GR" (Greece) 
- "REP. ITALIE.R I" (Italy) 
- "REP. LUXEMBOURG.R L" (Luxembourg) 
- "REP. PAYS-BAS.R NL" (Netherlands) 
- "REP. PORTUGAL.R P" (Portugal). 
4) Short-stay visas 
a. The following can appear in the first heading: 
- "DIPLOMATIQUE" (diplomatic) 
- "SERVICE" (service) 
- "SOINS MEDICAUX" (medical treatment) 
- "TRANSPLANTATION" (transplant) 
- "VOYAGE D'AFFAIRES" (business trip) 
- "ASCENDANT NON A CHARGE" (older non-dependent relative) 
- "ETUDIANT CONCOURS" (examination candidate) 
- "FAMILLE DE FRANCAIS" (French family tie) 
- "FAMILLE UE/EEE" (EU/EEA family tie) 
- "SAISONNIER OMI" (seasonal worker) 
- "VISA SPECIAL" (special visa) 
- "ACCORD DDTEFP" (approval of the departmental directorate for work, employment and vocational training) 
- "NON PROFESSIONNEL" (non-professional) 
- "SCIENTIFIQUE" (scientist). 
b. The following can appear in the second heading: 
- "COURT SEJOUR CIRCULATION" (short-stay travel) 
- "CARTE DE SEJ. A SOLLICITER DES L'ARRIVEE EN FRANCE" (residence permit to be requested on arrival in France) 
- "APT A SOLLICITER DES L'ARRIVEE EN FRANCE" (temporary work permit to be requested on arrival in France) 
- "REP. AUTRICHE.R A" (Austria) 
- "REP. BELGIQUE.R B" (Belgium) 
- "REP. ALLEMAGNE.R D" (Germany) 
- "REP. ESPAGNE.R E" (Spain) 
- "REP. GRECE.R GR" (Greece) 
- "REP. ITALIE.R I" (Italy) 
- "REP. LUXEMBOURG.R L" (Luxembourg) 
- "REP. PAYS-BAS.R NL" (Netherlands) 
- "REP. PORTUGAL.R P" (Portugal). 
5) Long-stay visas 
a. The following can appear in the first heading: 
- "ETUDIANT" (student) 
- "MINEUR SCOLARISE" (school pupil) 
- "SOINS MEDICAUX" (medical treatment) 
- "TRANSPLANTATION" (transplant) 
- "ANCIEN COMBATTANT" (war veteran) 
- "ARTISTE" (artist) 
- "COMMERCANT" (trader) 
- "CONJOINT DE SCIENTIFIQUE" (spouse of a scientist) 
- "FAM. EMPLOYE DE DIPLOMATE" (family of diplomatic employee) 
- "FAMILLE DE FRANCAIS" (French family tie) 
- "FAMILLE UE/EEE" (EU/EEA family tie) 
- "PENSIONNE TRAVAIL" (pensioner work) 
- "SCIENTIFIQUE" (scientist) 
- "VISITEUR" (visitor) 
- "EMPLOYE DE DIPLOMATE" (diplomatic employee) 
- "ACCORD DDTEFP" (approval of the departmental directorate for work, employment and vocational training). 
b. The following can appear in the second heading: 
- "DISPENSE DE CARTE DE SEJOUR" (exempt from residence permit) 
- "MONACO" (Monaco) 
"CARTE PROMAE A SOLLICITER DES L'ARRIVEE EN FRANCE" (Ministry of Foreign Affairs protocol card to be requested on arrival in France) 
- "APT A SOLLICITER DES L'ARRIVEE EN FRANCE" (temporary work permit to be requested on arrival in France). 
c. The following can appear in the third heading: 
- "VOIR CARTE DE SEJOUR" (see residence permit) 
- "VOIR CARTE SEJOUR PARENTS" (see parents' residence permit) 
- "VOIR CARTE SPECIALE MAE" (see special foreign office pass). 
ITALY 
The following wording is used: 
1) In the first line: 
"TRANSITO AEROPORTUALE" (airport transit) 
"TRANSITO" (transit) 
a) Short-stay visas 
"AFFARI" (business) 
"CURE MEDICHE" (medical treatment) 
"GARA SPORTIVA" (sporting event) 
"INVITO" (invitation) 
"LAVORO AUTONOMO" (self-employed work) 
"LAVORO AUTONOMO/SPETTACOLO" (self-employed work/entertainment) 
"LAVORO AUTONOMO/SPORT" (self-employed work/sport) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO" (employee) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO/MARITTIMI" (employee/maritime) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO/SPETTACOLO" (employee/entertainment) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO/SPORT" (employee/sport) 
"MISSIONE" (mission) 
"MOTIVI RELIGIOSI" (religious grounds) 
"STUDIO" (studies) 
"STUDIO/UNIVERSITÀ" (studies/university) 
"TRASPORTO" (transport) 
"TURISMO" (tourism). 
b) Long-stay visas 
"ADOZIONE" (adoption) 
"CURE MEDICHE" (medical treatment) 
"DIPLOMATICO" (diplomatic) 
"FAMILIARE AL SEGUITO" (accompanying family member) 
"INSERIMENTO NEL MERCATO DEL LAVORO" (employment) 
"INSERIMENTO NEL MERCATO DEL LAVORO/SPONSOR" (employment/sponsor) 
"LAVORO AUTONOMO" (self-employed work) 
"LAVORO AUTONOMO/SPETTACOLO" (self-employed work/entertainment) 
"LAVORO AUTONOMO/SPORT" (self-employed work/sport) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO" (employee) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO/MARITTIMI" (employee/maritime) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO/SPETTACOLO" (employee/entertainment) 
"LAVORO SUBORDINATO/SPORT" (employee/sport) 
"MISSIONE" (mission) 
"MOTIVI RELIGIOSI" (religious grounds) 
"REINGRESSO" (return) 
"RESIDENZA ELETTIVA" (elective residence) 
"RICONGIUNGIMENTO FAMILIARE" (family reunion) 
"STUDIO" (studies) 
"STUDIO/UNVERSITÀ" (studies/university) 
"VACANZE LAVORO" (working holiday). 
2) In the second line: 
- possible mention of border crossing point of entry and exit. 
3) In the third line: 
- the surname of the consular official who signed the visa. 
AUSTRIA 
The following entries are made in the following sequence: 
1. The entries "DIENSTVISUM" (service visa) or "DIPLOMATENVISUM" (diplomatic visa) are only used by the Federal Ministry for Foreign Affairs or the Austrian diplomatic representations abroad. 
2. Fees collected are entered as "EUR/ATS .../FW …" or "GRATIS". 
3. If the visa is issued on the basis of a letter of guarantee (Verpflichtungserklärung), "V" is entered. 
4. If the visa is issued on the basis of a tourist carnet from the ÖAM (Austrian Automobile Club) or a travel voucher from ELVIA, "V(ÖAMTC)" or "V(ELVIA)" is entered. 
5. If the visa is issued on the basis of a general letter of guarantee (Generalverpflichtungserklärung), "GVE" is entered. 
6. If the visa is issued to a HGV driver, "F" is entered. 
7. If some of the children entered in the passport are not to be included on the visa, the names of the children travelling with their parents are entered. 
8. If the visa is issued for a collective passport, "S" and, in brackets, the number of persons for whom the visa is valid are entered. 
9. A 3-letter name code for the person authorised to sign the visa (the code being allocated by the representing authority or border crossing point) is entered approximately 1 cm from the right-hand margin of the last line of the section headed "Comments". 
POLAND 
The following numbers can appear in the "comments" section on the visa sticker: 
"01", "02", "03", "04", "05", "06", "07", "08", "09", "10", "11", "12", "13", "14". 
They are relevant only for short-stay visas and long-stay visas. 
PORTUGAL 
1. Letter "A" if the visa is issued following consultation with the central authorities. Letter "B" if the visa is issued without consulting the central authorities. 
2. Letter "R" followed by the national code of the represented State if the visa is issued for another Schengen State in the framework of representation. 
3. Signature of the official responsible for issuing the visa. 
4. National stamp. 
5. Endorsement with "study", "temporary stay", "residence", "sport/entertainment", "research/highly qualified work", "self-employed work" or "paid work" depending on the type of national visa issued. 
SLOVENIA 
1. Endorsements upon A visas: 
- etališki tranzit (airport transit) 
- diplomatski vizum (diplomatic visa) 
- službeni vizum (service visa) 
- humanitarni razlogi (humanitarian reasons) 
2. Endorsements upon B visas: 
- tranzit (transit) 
- diplomatski vizum (diplomatic visa) 
- službeni vizum (service visa) 
- skupinski vizum (group visa) 
- voznik tovornjaka z vozilom (truck driver with vehicle) 
- voznik avtobusa z vozilom (bus driver with vehicle) 
- humanitarni razlogi (humanitarian reasons) 
3. Endorsements upon C visas: 
- diplomatski vizum (diplomatic visa) 
- službeni vizum (service visa) 
- skupinski vizum (group visa) 
- zasebni obisk (private visit) 
- turizem (tourism) 
- poslovno (business) 
- šport-nepridobitno (sports non-profitable) 
- kultura-nepridobitno (culture non-profitable) 
- voznik tovornjaka z vozilom (truck driver with vehicle) 
- voznik avtobusa z vozilom (bus driver with vehicle) 
- humanitarni razlogi (humanitarian reasons) 
- zdravljenje (medical treatment) 
- ITF rehabilitacija (rehabilitation of mine victims) 
FINLAND 
1. Diplomatic and service passports will bear the surname and first name and will be marked "diplomaattileimaus" (diplomatic) or "virkaleimaus" (service). 
2. Other travel documents will contain the surname and first name and be marked with one of the following: "F.1", "F.2", "F.3", "F.4", "F.5", "F.6", "E.F.1", "E.F.2", "E.F.3", "E.F.4", "E.F.5", "E.F.6". 
SWEDEN 
1. For diplomatic visas the code "U" followed by "Diplomatisk visering, Diplomatic visa" will be used. 
2. The representation will enter the surnames, first names and dates of birth of the persons on the holder's passport travelling with him. If there is not enough space the following page of the passport will be used. 
3. Signature of the official responsible for issuing the visa. The signature should run over the edge of the sticker onto the page of the passport. 
4. Where necessary, the following entries shall be written in the "comments" section: 
- Lastbilschaufför 
(lorry driver) 
- Busschaufför (turister) 
((bus driver (tourists)) 
- Turistguide 
(tourist guide) 
- Bärplockare 
(berry picker) 
NORWAY 
1. Dry stamp 
2. Signature 
3. A national number may be added 
[1] Where a visa is issued through the representation procedure, each Contracting Party shall refer to this fact in the "comments" section by adding a letter R followed by the code of the country being represented.For this purpose the following codes shall apply: Belgium — B; Denmark — DK; Germany — D; Greece — EL; Spain — E; France — F; Italy — I; Luxembourg — L; the Netherlands — NL; Austria — A; Portugal — P; Finland — FIN; Sweden — S; Iceland — IS; Norway — N. 
[2] See Article 2 of the Council Decision of 22 December 2003 on the amendment of Part V, point 1.4, of the Common Consular Instructions and Part I, point 4.1.2, of the Common Manual as regards inclusion of the requirement to be in possession of travel medical insurance as one of the supporting documents for the grant of a uniform entry visa (OJ L 5, 9.1.2004, p. 79). 
[3] This restriction is applied in cases where certain activities, defined more precisely by insertion of the more exact source in the Employment Regulation, are to be pursued in Germany, which under paragraph 16 of the Employment Regulation are not work as defined in the Residence Act if they are engaged in for up to three months within a period of twelve months on the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. 
[4] See Article 2 of the Council Decision of 22 December 2003 on the amendment of Part V, point 1.4, of the Common Consular Instructions and Part I, point 4.1.2 of the Common Manual as regards inclusion of the requirement to be in possession of travel medical insurance as one of the supporting documents for the grant of a uniform entry visa (OJ L 5, 9.1.2004, p. 79). 
[5] See Article 4(3)(c) of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Community and the National Tourism Administration of the People's Republic of China on visa and related issues concerning tourist groups from the People's Republic of China (ADS) (OJ L 83, 20.3.2004, p. 14). 
[6] For D visas Germany reserves the right to prescribe further restrictions and conditions as well as specific additional endorsements. 
[7] In certain cases only (e.g. at the request of a German internal aliens authority). 
[8] The exact designation of the permitted self-employed work is inserted here. 
[9] The type of work which may be done in Germany is specified here, with the insertion of the source in the Employment Regulation (Beschäftigungsverordnung — BeschV). 
[10] Conditions/restrictions are entered in the passport next to the visa sticker. 
[11] Where the visa was issued with the consent of a German immigration authority, the name of the authority is entered here. 
[12] This provision applies to A, B and C visas. Details other than those specified here may appear on D and D+C visas. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 10 
Instructions on inserting information in the optical reading area 
1. Definition: 
This area is situated at the bottom of the sticker under the heading for national comments. It must consist of two lines of 36 characters. The character font used — ORCB 1 — permits automatic reading of the sticker by appliances with special optical readers, located at external border posts in order to speed up control procedures. 
Since the technical features of this area are very specific, only consulates with computer facilities can print it. 
In view of this, no other details should be inserted in this area (stamp, signature, national code, etc.) as this might render the area illegible for the machines. 
2. Affixing the sticker: 
The sticker should as far as possible be aligned with and affixed as closely as possible to the edges of the page of the passport. 
Example of a perforated number 
Heading 
Visual Inspection Area 
Automatic Reading Area 
Left edge of the passport page 
Reference edge of the passport page 
3. Description of this area: 
This description has a purely informative function for posts without computer facilities, otherwise the computer will automatically print the contents of the sticker in the optical reading area — part of this information already appears at the top of the sticker. 
AUTOMATIC READING AREA (ARA) 
1st line: 36 characters (obligatory) 
Positions | Number of characters | Heading contents | Specifications | 
1-2 | 2 | Type of document | 1st character: V 2nd character: code indicating type of visa (A, B, C or D) | 
3-5 | 3 | Issuing State | ICAO alphabetic code 3-character: BEL, DNK, D%lt%%lt%, GRC, ESP, FRA, ITA, LUX, NLD, AUT, PRT, FIN, SWE, ISL, NOR. | 
6-36 | 31 | Surname and first name | The surname should be separated from the first names by 2 symbols (%lt%%lt%); individual components of the name should be separated by one symbol (%lt%); spaces which are not needed should be filled in with a symbol %lt%. | 
2nd line: 36 characters (obligatory) 
Positions | Number of characters | Heading contents | Specifications | 
1 | 9 | Visa number | This is the number printed in the top right-hand corner of the sticker. | 
10 | 1 | Control character | This character is the result of a complex calculation, based on the previous area according to an algorithm defined by the ICAO. | 
11 | 3 | Applicant’s nationality | Alphabetic coding according to ICAO 3- character codes. | 
14 | 6 | Date of birth | The order followed is YYMMDD where: YY = year (obligatory)MM = month or %lt%%lt% if unknownDD = day or %lt%%lt% if unknown | 
20 | 1 | Control character | This character is the result of a complex calculation, based on the previous area according to an algorithm defined by the ICAO. | 
21 | 1 | Sex | F = Female, M = Male, %lt% = Not specified. | 
22 | 6 | Date on which the visa’s validity ends | The order followed is YYMMDD without a filler. | 
28 | 1 | Control character | This character is the result of a complex calculation based on the previous area according to an algorithm defined by the ICAO. | 
29 | 1 | Territorial validity | a)For LTV visas, insert the letter T.b)For uniform visas insert the filler %lt%. | 
30 | 1 | Number of entries | 1, 2, or M | 
31 | 2 | Duration of stay | a)Short stay: number of days should be inserted in the visual reading area.b)Long stay: %lt%%lt% | 
33 | 4 | Start of validity | The structure is MMDD without any filler. | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 11 
Criteria for determining whether a travel document may bear a visa 
The travel documents described below shall be considered valid for the purpose of Article 17(3a) of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, provided that they confirm the holder's identity and, in the cases mentioned under (a) and (b) below, the holder's nationality or citizenship and provided that they fulfil the conditions in Articles 13 and 14. 
(a) Travel documents issued in accordance with international rules applied by countries or regional and local bodies recognised by all Member States. 
(b) Passports or travel documents which, although issued by countries or international bodies not recognised by all Member States, guarantee the alien's return, provided that the Executive Committee recognises them as valid documents to which to affix a joint visa (which may alternatively be affixed to a separate sheet). The unanimous approval of the Executive Committee shall be required for: 
- the list of these passports or travel documents, 
- the list of countries or entities which are not recognised and which have issued these documents. 
These lists, if compiled, shall serve only to meet the requirements for implementing the Schengen Convention and shall not preclude Member States from recognising countries or regional and local entities that are not recognised. 
(c) Travel documents for refugees issued in accordance with the Convention of 1951 on the Status of Refugees. 
(d) Travel documents for stateless persons issued in accordance with the Convention of 1954 on the Status of Stateless Persons [1]. 
[1] Portugal and Austria, although not Contracting Parties to this Convention, accept that travel documents issued in accordance with this Convention may bear the uniform visa issued by the Schengen States. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 12 
Fees to be charged in EUR corresponding to the administrative costs of processing the visa application 
Type of visa | Fees to be charged (in EUR) | 
Airport transit visa (Category A) | 35 | 
Transit visa (Category B) | 35 | 
Short-stay visa (1 — 90 days) (Category C) | 35 | 
Multiple entry visa, valid for 1 — 5 years (Category C) | 35 | 
Visa with limited territorial validity (Categories B and C) | 35 | 
Visa issued at the border (Categories B and C) | 35 This visa may be issued free of charge. | 
Group visa (Categories A, B and C) | EUR 35 + EUR 1 per person | 
National long-stay visa (Category D) | The amount shall be fixed by the Member States, who may decide to issue these visas free of charge. | 
National long-stay visa valid concurrently as a short-stay visa (Category D+C) | The amount shall be fixed by the Member States, who may decide to issue these visas free of charge. | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 13 
Filling in visa stickers 
Note:as a general rule, visas can be issued at the earliest 3 months before they are first used. 
AIRPORT TRANSIT VISAS (ATVs) 
It is pointed out that only nationals of certain "sensitive" countries (see Annex 3) are subject to an ATV. ATV holders may not leave the international section of the airport through which they travel in transit. 
Example 1 
SINGLE AIRPORT TRANSIT VISA 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- Type of visa: ATVs bear the identification code A. 
- The single ATV gives access to one country only (France in this example). 
- The duration of validity is calculated from the date of departure (e.g. 01.02.00); the term is fixed by adding a period of grace of 7 days in case the visa holder postpones departure. 
- ATVs do not confer the right to stay, the heading "duration of stay" should be deleted with XXX. 
Example 2a 
DUAL ATV 
(valid for one country) 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- The dual ATV authorises airport transit for both outward and return journeys. 
- The duration of the visa's validity is calculated as follows: date of the return journey + 7 days (in the example shown: Return date 15.02.00). 
- If the intention is to transit through one airport only, the name of the country concerned is entered under the heading "valid for" (Example 2a). If transit is made by way of exception via 2 different Schengen countries on the outward and return journeys, the visa is marked "Schengen States" (see Example 2b below). 
Example 2b 
DUAL ATV 
(valid for several countries) 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- "Schengen States" should be entered under the heading "valid for" to allow transit via two airports situated in two different countries. 
Example 3 
MULTIPLE ATV 
(should only be issued in exceptional cases) 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- In the case of multiple ATVs (allowing several transits) the term of the visa's validity is calculated as follows: date of first departure + 3 months. 
- For the entry under "valid for", the same rule applies as to dual ATVs. 
TRANSIT VISAS 
Example 4 
SINGLE-ENTRY TRANSIT VISA 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- Type of visa: the transit visa bears the identification code B. It is advisable to add the word "TRANSIT". 
- The duration of validity is calculated from the date of departure (e.g. 01.02.00). The term is fixed as follows: date of departure + (5 days maximum) + 7 days (period of grace in case the visa holder postpones departure). 
- The duration of the transit may not exceed 5 days. 
Example 5 
DUAL-ENTRY TRANSIT VISA 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- The duration of validity: when the date of different transit journeys is not known, which is generally the case, the period of validity is calculated as follows: date of departure + 6 months. 
- The duration of the transit may not exceed 5 days. 
Example 6 
MULTIPLE-ENTRY TRANSIT VISA 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- The duration of validity is calculated in the same way as for dual entry transit visas (see Example 5). 
- The duration of the stay may not exceed 5 days in transit. 
SHORT-STAY VISAS 
Example 7 
SINGLE-ENTRY SHORT-STAY VISA 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- Type of visa: the short-stay visa bears the identification code C. 
- The duration of the visa's validity is calculated as follows: from the date of departure (e.g. 01.02.00). The period is fixed as follows: date of departure + duration of stay + period of grace of 15 days. 
- The duration of the stay may not exceed 90 days in any six-month period (30 days in the example shown here). 
Example 8 
MULTIPLE-ENTRY SHORT-STAY VISA 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- The duration of validity is calculated from the date of departure + 6 months maximum on the basis of the documentary evidence provided. 
- The duration of the stay may not exceed 90 days in any six-month period (in the example shown here, but the duration may also be less). The duration of the stay is that of the cumulative total of successive stays. This is also based on the documentary evidence provided. 
Example 9 
SHORT-STAY TRAVEL VISA 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- This is a multiple-entry short-stay visa which is valid for over 6 months, 1, 2, 3 or 5 years in exceptional cases (e.g.V.I.P.s). In the example shown here the validity is 3 years. 
- Same rules apply to the duration of the stay as in Example 8 (90 days maximum). 
VISAS WITH LIMITED TERRITORIAL VALIDITY (LTV VISAS) 
The LTV visa can be either a short-stay visa or a transit visa. 
The limitation of validity may apply to one or to several States. 
Example 10 
SHORT-STAY LTV VISA, A SINGLE COUNTRY ONLY 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- In this example, the territorial validity is limited to a single country, i.e. France. 
- The short-stay LTV visa bears the identification code C (in the same way as Example 7) 
Example 11 
SHORT-STAY LTV VISA, VALIDITY LIMITED TO SEVERAL COUNTRIES 
In this case, the "valid for" heading shall be filled in: 
- either by the codes indicating the countries for which the visa is valid (Belgium: B, Denmark: DK, Germany: D, Greece: GR, Spain: E, France: F, Italy: I, Luxembourg: L, Netherlands: NL, Austria: A, Portugal: P, Finland: FIN, Sweden: S, Iceland: IS, Norway: N. In the case of the Benelux countries: BNL). In the example shown, the territorial validity is limited to France and Spain. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- or by the words "Schengen States" followed in brackets by the minus sign and the codes of the Member States for the territories of which the visa is not valid. In the example shown, the visa is valid for the territory of all the Member States applying the Schengen acquis except France and Spain. 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
Example 12 
TRANSIT LTV VISA, ONE COUNTRY 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- The transit visa bears the identification code B under the heading for the type of visa. 
- In the example shown, the visa is limited to French territory. 
ACCOMPANYING PERSONS 
Example 13 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- In this case, one or more children and in exceptional circumstances, a spouse travel on one passport. 
- If one or more children travelling on the travel document are covered by the visa the heading "passport number" is followed by + nX indicating the number of children, and if a spouse is travelling on the passport, by + Y. In the example shown here (single-entry, short-stay visa, with a duration of stay 30 days), the visa is issued for the passport holder, 3 children and the passport holder's spouse. 
VISA ISSUED BY REPRESENTATION 
Example 14 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
The above visa was issued by a consular post of a Schengen State representing another Schengen State. 
In this case, under the heading "Remarks", the letter "R" must be entered, followed by the country code of the country on whose behalf the visa was issued. 
The country codes to be used are as follows: 
Belgium: | B | 
Denmark: | DK | 
Germany: | D | 
Greece: | GR | 
Spain: | E | 
France: | F | 
Italy: | I | 
Luxembourg: | L | 
The Netherlands: | NL | 
Austria: | A | 
Portugal: | P | 
Finland: | FIN | 
Sweden: | S | 
Iceland | IS | 
Norway: | N | 
In the above example, the Belgian Embassy in Brazzaville issued a visa on behalf of Spain. 
NATIONAL LONG-STAY VISA VALID CONCURRENTLY AS A SHORT-STAY VISA 
Example 15 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
- In this case, the code of the country which issued the long-stay visa + the words "Schengen States" is to be entered after the "VALID FOR" heading. 
- This example shows a national long-stay visa issued by Greece and valid concurrently as a uniform short-stay visa. 
- A long-stay visa valid concurrently as a short-stay visa bears the identification code D+C. 
SUMMARY 
| "VALID FOR" | "TYPE" | "NUMBER OF ENTRIES" | "FROM"… "TO" | "MAXIMUM DURATION OF EACH STAY" (in days) | 
Airport transit visa (ATV) | SCHENGEN STATES or FRANCE (for example) | A | 01 | Date of departure | Date of departure + 7 days | XXX | 
02 | Date of departure | Date of return + 7 days | 
MULT | Date of 1st departure | Date of 1st departure + number of months authorised (maximum 3 months) | 
Transit visa | SCHENGEN STATES or FRANCE (for example) | B | 01 | Date of departure | Date of departure + duration of stay + 7 days | from 1-5 | 
02 | Date of 1st departure | Date of 1st departure + number of months authorised (maximum 6 months) | 
MULT | Date of 1st departure | 
Short-stay visa | SCHENGEN STATES or FRANCE (for example) | C | 01 | Date of departure | Date of departure + duration of stay + 15 days | from 1-90 | 
MULT | Date of 1st departure | Date of 1st departure + number of months authorised (maximum 5 years) | 
Long-stay valid concurrently as a short-stay visa | HELLAS (for example) + SCHENGEN STATES | D + C | 01 | | | | 
MULT | | | | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 14 
Obligations as regards information to be sent by Contracting Parties when visas with limited territorial validity are issued, when the period of validity of uniform visas is cancelled, revoked or reduced and when national residence permits are issued 
1. INFORMATION WHEN ISSUING VISAS WITH LIMITED TERRITORIAL VALIDITY 
1.1. General conditions 
In order to obtain authorisation to enter the national territory of Schengen Contracting Parties, third-country nationals should in principle fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 5(1) of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement (hereinafter: the Schengen Convention). 
If a third-country national does not fulfil all these conditions, entry or the issue of a visa shall be refused except where a Contracting Party considers it necessary to derogate from this rule on humanitarian grounds, on grounds of national interest, or because of international obligations. In such cases, the Contracting Party concerned may issue a visa with limited territorial validity (LTV) only and must inform the other Contracting Parties (Articles 5(2) and 16 of the Schengen Convention). 
In principle, short-stay LTVs issued in accordance with the Schengen Convention and the Common Consular Instructions on Visas, Chapter V, 3, are subject to the following conditions: 
(a) LTVs are issued by way of exception. The conditions under which this type of visa is issued must be carefully examined on a case-by-case basis. 
(b) It should not be expected that the Schengen Contracting Parties will use and abuse the possibility to issue LTVs; this would not be in keeping with the purpose and objectives of Schengen. Given that the number of LTVs being issued will most probably be small, it is not necessary to provide for an automated procedure for informing the other Contracting Parties. 
1.2. Rules of procedure 
When drawing up rules of procedure governing the information to be sent by Contracting Parties when issuing LTVs, a distinction should be made between visas issued by diplomatic and consular representations and visas issued by the border authorities. The rules of procedure in force are as follows: 
1.2.1. Issue of visas by diplomatic and consular representations 
In general, the rules laid down for the provisional arrangements for consultation with the central authorities (Article 17(2) of the Schengen Convention shall apply mutatis mutandis to the information procedure used by the other Contracting Parties (see Doc. SCH/II-Visa (94) 7). Where different rules are used, these shall be notified by the Contracting Parties concerned. In general, information shall be sent within 72 hours. 
1.2.2. Issue of visas by the border authorities 
In this case, information shall be sent within 72 hours to the central authorities of the other Contracting Parties. 
1.2.3. The Contracting Parties must designate which contact points should receive this information. 
1.2.4. When setting up an automated procedure to enable consultation between the central authorities (Article 17(2), of the Schengen Convention), this shall include a provision ensuring that other Contracting Parties are informed of the issue of an LTV where the LTV is issued as a result of an objection to the issue of a Schengen visa on the part of one (or more) Contracting Party/Parties), in the framework of consultation. Where LTVs are issued in other circumstances, this procedure cannot be used for sending information between States. 
1.2.5. The following information shall be sent to the Contracting Parties: 
Surname, first name, and date of birth of visa holder 
Nationality of visa holder 
Date and place of issue of LTV 
Reasons for issuing visas with limited territorial validity 
- humanitarian grounds 
- grounds of national interest 
- international obligations 
- travel document which is not valid in all Contracting Parties 
- second issue of a visa within a six-month period 
- in emergencies, there was no consultation with the central authorities 
- the central authorities of a Contracting Party raised objections during consultation 
2. CANCELLING, REVOKING AND REDUCING THE DURATION OF VALIDITY OF A UNIFORM VISA 
In accordance with the principles adopted by the Committee Executive when cancelling, revoking and reducing the duration of a uniform visa's validity (SCH/Com-ex (93) 24), the following information must be sent to the other Contracting Parties: 
2.1. Cancelling visas 
The aim in cancelling a Schengen visa is to prevent persons from entering the territory of the Contracting Parties when it becomes evident after a visa has been issued that these persons do not fulfil the conditions warranting the issue of a visa. 
Contracting Parties which cancel a visa issued by another Contracting Party shall in principle inform the central authorities of the issuing State within 72 hours. 
This notification shall contain the following information: 
Surname, first name, and date of birth of visa holder 
Nationality of visa holder 
Type and number of travel document 
Number of the visa sticker 
Category of visa 
Date and place of visa issue 
Date and reasons for cancellation 
2.2. Revoking visas 
Revoking a visa permits cancellation of the remaining duration of its validity after entry to the territory. 
A Contracting Party which revokes a uniform visa shall inform the issuing Contracting Party in principle within 72 hours. This notification shall contain the same information as mentioned under point 2.1. 
2.3. Reducing the duration of a visa's validity 
When a Schengen State reduces the duration of validity of a visa issued by another Contracting Party, it shall inform this Contracting Party's central authorities in principle within 72 hours. This notification shall contain the same information as mentioned under point 2.1. 
2.4. Procedure 
The information sent to the Contracting Party which issued the visa when the duration of its validity is cancelled, revoked or reduced shall in principle be sent to the central authority designated by this Contracting Party. 
3. INFORMATION ON NATIONAL RESIDENCE PERMITS (ARTICLE 25) 
Article 25(1) lays down that where a Contracting Party considers issuing a residence permit to an alien for whom an alert has been issued for the purposes of refusing entry, it shall first consult the issuing Contracting Party and shall take account of its interests: the residence permit shall be issued for substantive reasons only, notably on humanitarian grounds or by reason of international commitments. 
The second subparagraph in Article 25(1) provides that the Contracting Party issuing the alert shall withdraw the alert, but may put the alien concerned on its national list of alerts. 
The application of the provisions mentioned above therefore involves two instances of information transmission between the Contracting Party intending to issue the residence permit and the Contracting Party issuing the alert: 
- prior consultation with the Contracting Party issuing the alert to take account of its interests and 
- information on the issue of the residence permit, so that the Contracting Party issuing the alert can withdraw it. 
In accordance with the provisions of Article 25(2) of the Schengen Convention, consultation of the issuing Contracting Party is also necessary if it becomes evident only a posteriori, i.e. after the residence permit has been issued, that an alert on the holder of the permit has been issued for the purpose of refusing entry. 
In view of the underlying principles of the Schengen Convention, the issue of a residence permit to a third-country national for whom an alert has been issued for the purpose of refusing entry by one of the Contracting Parties shall also be limited to exceptional circumstances. 
With regard to the communication referred to in Article 25 of the Convention, such a procedure is closely connected with the functioning of the Schengen Information System (SIS). The possibility of transmitting information via the forthcoming SIRENE procedure should be examined. 
The rules of procedure set out in this note shall be re-examined from the point of view of their practical applicability at the latest twelve months after the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement has been brought into force. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 15 
Specimen harmonised forms providing proof of invitation, sponsorship and accommodation drafted by the Contracting Parties 
GERMANY 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
FRANCE 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
LITHUANIA (1) 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 16 
Specimen harmonised uniform visa application form 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 17 
Facilitated Transit Document (FTD) 
and 
Facilitated Rail Transit Document (FRTD) 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 693/2003 
of 14 April 2003 
establishing a specific Facilitated Transit Document (FTD), a Facilitated Rail Transit Document (FRTD) and amending the Common Consular Instructions and the Common Manual 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 62(2) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission [1], 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament [2] 
Whereas: 
(1) In order to prepare accession of new Member States, the Community should take into account specific situations, which may occur as a result of the enlargement and set out the relevant legislation in order to avoid future problems in relation with the crossing of the external border. 
(2) The Community should address in particular the new situation of third country nationals who must necessarily cross the territory of one or several Member States in order to travel between two parts of their own country which are not geographically contiguous. 
(3) A Facilitated Transit Document (FTD) and a Facilitated Rail Transit Document (FRTD) should be established for this specific case of transit by land. 
(4) The FTD/FRTD are to constitute documents having the value of transit visas authorising their holders to enter in order to pass through the territories of Member States in accordance with the provisions of the Schengen acquis concerning the crossing of external borders. 
(5) The conditions and the procedures for obtaining these documents should be facilitated in line with the provisions of the Schengen acquis. 
(6) Penalties, as provided for in national law, should be imposed on the holder of the FTD/FRTD in case of misuse of the scheme. 
(7) Since the objective of the proposed action, namely the recognition of FTD/FRTD, issued by one Member State, by the other Member States bound by the provisions of the Schengen acquis concerning the crossing of external borders cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore by reason of the scale of the action be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve this objective. 
(8) A uniform format for FTD and FRTD is established in Regulation (EC) No 694/2003 [3]. 
(9) The Common Consular Instructions [4] and the Common Manual [5] should be amended accordingly. 
(10) In accordance with Articles 1 and 2 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark is not taking part in the adoption of this Regulation, and is not bound by it or subject to its application. Given that this Regulation builds upon the Schengen acquis under the provisions of Title IV of Part Three of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark shall, in accordance with Article 5 of the said Protocol, decide within a period of six months after the Council has adopted this Regulation whether it will implement it in its national law. 
(11) As regards Iceland and Norway, this Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis within the meaning of the Agreement concluded by the Council of the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the association of those two States with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis [6], which fall within the area referred to in Article 1(B) of Council Decision 1999/437/EC of 17 May 1999 on certain arrangements for the application of that Agreement [7]. 
(12) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which the United Kingdom does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2000/365/EC of 29 May 2000 concerning the request of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis [8]; the United Kingdom is therefore not taking part in its adoption and is not bound by it or subject to its application. 
(13) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which Ireland does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2002/192/EC of 28 February 2002 concerning Ireland's request to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis [9]; Ireland is therefore not taking part in its adoption and is not bound by it or subject to its application. 
(14) This Regulation constitutes an act building on the Schengen acquis or otherwise related to it within the meaning of Article 3(2) of the Act of Accession and will therefore only become applicable after the lifting of the internal border controls, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
CHAPTER I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Article 1 
Definition 
1. This Regulation establishes a Facilitated Transit Document (FTD) and a Facilitated Rail Transit Document (FRTD) for the purpose of facilitated transit. 
2. Facilitated transit shall mean the specific and direct transit by land of a third country national who must necessarily cross the territory of one or several Member States in order to travel between two parts of his own country which are not geographically contiguous. 
Article 2 
Specific authorisation (FTD/FRTD) 
1. The FTD is a specific authorisation allowing for a facilitated transit, which may be issued by Member States for multiple entries by whatever means of land transport. 
2. The FRTD is a specific authorisation allowing for facilitated transit, which may be issued by Member States for a single entry and return by rail. 
3. The FTD/FRTD shall be issued in the form of uniform formats in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 694/2003. 
Article 3 
Scope and validity 
1. The FTD and the FRTD have the same value as transit visas and are territorially valid for the issuing Member State and other Member States through which the facilitated transit takes place. 
2. The FTD shall be valid for a maximum period of up to three years. A transit based on the FTD shall not exceed 24 hours. 
3. The FRTD shall be valid for a maximum period of up to three months. A transit based on the FRTD shall not exceed six hours. 
CHAPTER II 
ISSUING AN FTD/FRTD 
Article 4 
Conditions 
In order to obtain an FTD/FRTD, the applicant shall: 
(a) possess a valid document, authorising him to cross external borders as defined pursuant to Article 17(3)(a) of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985, signed at Schengen on 19 June 1990 [10]; 
(b) not be a person for whom an alert has been issued for the purposes of refusing entry; 
(c) not be considered to be a threat to public policy, national security or the international relations of any of the Member States. However, in relation to the FRTD, prior consultation in accordance with Article 17(2) of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement shall not apply; 
(d) for the FTD, have valid reasons for frequent travelling between the two parts of the territory of his country. 
Article 5 
Application procedure 
1. The application for an FTD shall be presented to the consular authorities of a Member State which has communicated its decision to issue the FTD/FRTD in accordance with Article 12. If more than one Member State has communicated its decision to issue the FTD, the application shall be submitted to the consular authorities of the Member State of the first entry. This procedure shall provide for the submission when appropriate of documentation demonstrating the need for frequent travel, in particular documents concerning family links or social, economic or other motives. 
2. In the case of an FRTD, a Member State may, as a rule, accept applications transmitted via other authorities or third parties. 
3. The application for an FTD shall be presented on the standard form as set out in Annex I. 
4. The personal data for an FRTD shall be supplied on the basis of the Personal Data Sheet set out in Annex II. This Personal Data Sheet may be filled in on board the train before the affixing of the FRTD, and in any event before the entry into the territory of the Member State through which the train passes, on condition that the basic personal data, as set out in Annex II, are transmitted electronically to the authorities of the competent Member State at the moment when the request to purchase the railway ticket is made. 
Article 6 
Issuing procedure 
1. The FTD/FRTD shall be issued by the consular offices of the Member State and shall not be issued at the border. The decision on issuing the FRTD shall be taken by the competent consular authorities at the latest 24 hours after the electronic transmission provided for in Article 5(4). 
2. No FTD/FRTD shall be affixed in a travel document that has expired. 
3. The period of validity of the travel document in which the FTD/FRTD is affixed shall be longer than that of the FTD/FRTD. 
4. No FTD/FRTD shall be affixed in a travel document if that travel document is not valid for any of the Member States. In this case it shall be affixed by the consular offices on the uniform format for forms for affixing the visa in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 333/2002 [11]. If a travel document is only valid for one Member State or for a number of Member States, the FTD/FRTD shall be limited to the Member State or Member States in question. 
Article 7 
Administrative costs of an FTD/FRTD 
1. The fee corresponding to the administrative costs of processing the application for an FTD shall be EUR 5. 
2. The FRTD shall be issued free of charge. 
CHAPTER III 
COMMON PROVISIONS RELATED TO THE FTD/FRTD 
Article 8 
Refusal 
1. The procedures, and appeal in cases where the consular post refuses to examine an application or issue an FTD/FRTD shall be governed by national law of the respective Member States. 
2. If an FTD/FRTD is refused and national law requires the grounds for such a refusal to be given, the reason shall be communicated to the applicant. 
Article 9 
Penalties 
Penalties, as provided for in national law, should be imposed on the holder of the FTD/FRTD in case of misuse of the scheme. 
Such penalties shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, and shall include the possibility of cancelling or revoking the FTD/FRTD. 
CHAPTER IV 
FINAL PROVISIONS 
Article 10 
Subject to the specific rules set out in this Regulation, the provisions of the Schengen acquis relating to visas shall also apply to the FTD/FRTD. 
Article 11 
1. The Common Consular Instructions are hereby amended as follows: 
(a) The following point shall be added to part I: 
2.5. "Documents having the same value as a visa, authorising the crossing of external borders: FTD/FRTD 
For facilitated transit, an FTD or an FRTD can be issued in accordance with Council Regulations (EC) No 693/2003 [12] and (EC) No 694/2003 [13] (see Annex 17)." 
(b) The text of this Regulation and of Regulation (EC) No 694/2003 shall be added as Annex 17. 
2. The Common Manual shall be amended as follows: 
(a) The following point shall be added to Part I: 
3.4. "DOCUMENTS HAVING THE SAME VALUE AS A VISA, AUTHORISING THE CROSSING OF EXTERNAL BORDERS: FTD/FRTD 
For facilitated transit, an FTD or an FRTD can be issued in accordance with Council Regulations (EC) No 693/2003 [14] and (EC) No 694/2003 [15] (See Annex 15)." 
(b) The text of this Regulation and of Regulation (EC) No 694/2003 shall be added as Annex 15. 
Article 12 
Implementation 
1. Member States deciding to issue the FTD and the FRTD shall communicate such decision to the Council and the Commission. The decision shall be published by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall enter into force on the date of its publication. 
2. If Member States decide no longer to issue the FTD and the FRTD they shall communicate that decision to the Council and the Commission. The decision shall be published by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following its publication. 
Article 13 
Report 
The Commission shall report to the European Parliament and the Council on the functioning of the facilitated transit scheme at the latest three years after the entry into force of the first decision as set out in Article 12(1). 
Article 14 
Entry into force 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
Done at Luxembourg, 14 April 2003. 
For the Council 
The President 
A. Giannitsis 
ANNEX I 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
ANNEX II 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 694/2003 
of 14 April 2003 
on uniform formats for Facilitated Transit Documents (FTD) and Facilitated Rail Transit Documents (FRTD) provided for in Regulation (EC) No 693/2003 
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 62(2) thereof, 
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission [16], 
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament [17], 
Whereas: 
(1) In order to prepare accession of new Member States, the Community should take into account specific situations, which may occur as a result of the enlargement and set out the relevant legislation in order to avoid future problems in relation with the crossing of the external border. 
(2) Council Regulation (EC) No 693/2003 [18] establishes a Facilitated Transit Document (FTD) and Facilitated Rail Transit Document (FRTD) for the case of a specific transit by land of third country nationals who must necessarily cross the territory of one or several Member States in order to travel between two parts of their own country which are not geographically contiguous. Uniform formats for these documents should be established. 
(3) These uniform formats should contain all the necessary information and meet high technical standards, in particular as regards safeguards against counterfeiting and falsification. The formats should also be suited to use by all Member States and bear universally recognisable harmonised security features which are clearly visible to the naked eye. 
(4) Powers to adopt such common standards should be conferred on the Commission, which should be assisted by the Committee established by Article 6 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 of 29 May 1995 laying down a uniform format for visas [19]. 
(5) To ensure that the information in question is not divulged more widely than is necessary, it is also essential that each Member State issuing the FTD/FRTD designate a single body for printing the uniform format for FTD/FRTD, while retaining the possibility of changing that body, if necessary. For security reasons, each such Member State should communicate the name of the competent body to the Commission and to the other Member States. 
(6) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred to the Commission [20]. 
(7) In accordance with Articles 1 and 2 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark is not taking part in the adoption of this Regulation, and is not bound by it or subject to its application. Given that this Regulation builds upon the Schengen acquis under the provisions of Title IV of Part Three of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark shall, in accordance with Article 5 of the said Protocol, decide within a period of six months after the Council has adopted this Regulation whether it will implement it in its national law. 
(8) As regards Iceland and Norway, this Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis within the meaning of the Agreement concluded by the Council of the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the association of those two States with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis [21], which fall within the area referred to in Article 1, point B of Council Decision 1999/437/EC of 17 May 1999 on certain arrangements for the application of that Agreement [22]. 
(9) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which the United Kingdom does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2000/365/EC of 29 May 2000 concerning the request of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis [23]; the United Kingdom is therefore not taking part in its adoption and is not bound by it or subject to its application. 
(10) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which Ireland does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2002/192/EC of 28 February 2002 concerning Ireland's request to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis [24]; Ireland is therefore not taking part in its adoption and is not bound by it or subject to its application. 
(11) This Regulation constitutes an act building on the Schengen acquis or otherwise related to it within the meaning of Article 3(1) of the Act of Accession, 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
Article 1 
1. Facilitated Transit Documents (FTD) issued by the Member States as referred to in Article 2(1) of Regulation (EC) No 693/2003 shall be produced in the form of a uniform format (sticker) and shall have the same value as transit visas. They shall conform to the specifications set out in Annex I to this Regulation. 
2. Facilitated Rail Transit Documents (FRTD) issued by the Member States as referred to in Article 2(2) of Regulation (EC) No 693/2003 shall be produced in the form of a uniform format (sticker) and shall have the same value as transit visas. They shall conform to the specifications set out in Annex II to this Regulation. 
Article 2 
1. Further technical specifications for the uniform format for FTD and FRTD relating to the following shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 4(2): 
(a) additional security features and requirements including enhanced anti-forgery, counterfeiting and falsification standards; 
(b) technical processes and rules for the filling in of the uniform FTD/FRTD; 
(c) other rules to be observed for the filling in of the uniform FTD/FRTD. 
2. The colours of the uniform FTD and FRTD may be changed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 4(2). 
Article 3 
1. The specifications referred to in Article 2 shall be secret and not be published. They shall be made available only to the bodies designated by the Member States as responsible for printing and to the persons duly authorised by a Member State or the Commission. 
2. Each Member State which has decided to issue the FTD/FRTD shall designate one body having responsibility for printing them. It shall communicate the name of that body to the Commission and the other Member States. The same body may be designated by two or more Member States for this purpose. Each Member State shall be entitled to change its designated body. It shall inform the Commission and the other Member States accordingly. 
Article 4 
1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee set up by Article 6(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1683/95. 
2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply. 
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be two months. 
3. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. 
Article 5 
Without prejudice to data protection rules, persons to whom the FTD and FRTD is issued shall have the right to verify the personal particulars contained in the FTD/FRTD and, where appropriate, to have them corrected or deleted. No information in machine-readable form shall be included in the FTD and FRTD, unless provided for in the Annexes to this Regulation or unless it is mentioned in the relevant travel document. 
Article 6 
Member States which have decided to do so shall issue the uniform format for FTD and FRTD as referred to in Article 1 no later than one year after the adoption of the additional security features and requirements referred to in Article 2(1)(a). 
The need for the incorporation of the photograph referred to in point 2 of Annex I and point 2 of Annex II may be determined by the end of 2005. 
Article 7 
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community. 
Done at Luxembourg, 14 April 2003. 
For the Council 
The President 
A. Giannitsis 
ANNEX I 
FACILITATED TRANSIT DOCUMENT (FTD) 
Security features 
1. An optically variable device (OVD), which provides a quality of identification and a level of security not less than the device used in the current uniform format for visas, shall appear in this space. Depending on the angle of view, 12 stars, the letter "E" and a globe become visible in various sizes and colours. 
2. An integrated photograph produced according to high security standards. 
3. The logo consisting of a letter or letters indicating the issuing Member State with a latent image effect shall appear in this space. This logo shall appear light when held flat and dark when turned by 90o. The logos shall be used following Regulation (EC) No 1683/95. 
4. The word "FTD" in capital letters shall appear in the middle of this space in optically variable colouring. Depending on the angle of view, it shall appear in green or red. 
5. This box shall contain the number of the FTD, which shall be pre-printed and shall begin with the letter or letters indicating the issuing country as described in point 3. A special type shall be used. 
Sections to be completed 
6. This box shall begin with the words "valid for". The issuing authority shall indicate the territory or territories for which the FTD is valid. 
7. This box shall begin with the word "from" and the word "until" shall appear further along the line. The issuing authority shall indicate here the period of validity of the FTD. 
8. This box shall begin with the words "number of entries" and further along the line the words "duration of transit" and again "days" shall appear. 
9. This box shall begin with the words "issued in" and shall be used to indicate the place of issue. 
10. This box shall begin with the word "on" (after which the date of issue shall be filled in by the issuing authority) and further along the line the words "number of passport" shall appear (after which the holder's passport number shall appear). 
11. This box shall indicate the name and the forename of the holder. 
12. This box shall begin with the word "remarks". It shall be used by the issuing authority to indicate any further information, which is considered necessary, provided that it complies with Article 5 of this Regulation. The following two-and-a-half lines shall be left empty for such remarks. 
13. This box shall contain the relevant machine-readable information to facilitate external border controls. 
The paper shall not be coloured (basic white shade). 
The words designating the boxes shall appear in English, French and in the language of the issuing State. 
Model of the FTD 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
ANNEX II 
FACILITATED RAIL TRANSIT DOCUMENT (FRTD) 
Security features 
1. An optically variable device (OVD), which provides a quality of identification and a level of security not less than the device used in the current uniform format for visas, shall appear in this space. Depending on the angle of view, 12 stars, the letter "E" and a globe become visible in various sizes and colours. 
2. An integrated photograph produced according to high security standards. 
3. The logo consisting of a letter or letters indicating the issuing Member State with a latent image effect shall appear in this space. This logo shall appear light when held flat and dark when turned by 90o. The logos shall be used following Regulation (EC) 1683/95. 
4. The word "FRTD" in capital letters shall appear in the middle of this space in optically variable colouring. Depending on the angle of view, it shall appear in green or red. 
5. This box shall contain the number of the FRTD, which shall be pre-printed and shall begin with the letter or letters indicating the issuing country as described in point 3 above. A special type shall be used. 
Sections to be completed 
6. This box shall begin with the words "valid for". The issuing authority shall indicate the territory or territories for which the FRTD is valid. 
7. This box shall begin with the word "from" and the word "until" shall appear further along the line. The issuing authority shall indicate here the period of validity of the FRTD. 
8. In this box shall be stated "single entry and return" and further along the line the word "hours". 
9. This box shall begin with the words "issued in" and shall be used to indicate the place of issue. 
10. This box shall begin with the word "on" (after which the date of issue shall be filled in by the issuing authority) and further along the line the words "number of passport" shall appear (after which the holder's passport number shall appear). 
11. This box shall indicate the name and the forename of the holder. 
12. This box shall begin with the word "remarks". It shall be used by the issuing authority to indicate any further information, which is considered necessary, provided that it complies with Article 5 of this Regulation. The following two-and-a-half lines shall be left empty for such remarks. 
13. This box shall contain the relevant machine-readable information to facilitate external border controls. 
The paper shall not be coloured (basic white shade). 
The words designating the boxes shall appear in English, French and in the language of the issuing State. 
Model of the FRTD 
+++++ TIFF +++++ 
[1] Not yet published in the Official Journal. 
[2] Opinion delivered on 8 April 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal). 
[3] See page 15 of this Official Journal. 
[4] OJ C 313, 16.12.2002, p. 1. Instructions amended by Regulation (EC) No 415/2003 (OJ L 64, 7.3.2003, p. 1). 
[5] OJ C 313, 16.12.2002, p. 97. 
[6] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 36. 
[7] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 31. 
[8] OJ L 131, 1.6.2000, p. 43. 
[9] OJ L 64, 7.3.2002, p. 20. 
[10] OJ L 239, 22.9.2000, p. 19. Convention as last amended by Decision 2003/170/JHA (OJ L 67, 12.3.2003, p. 27). 
[11] OJ L 53, 23.2.2002, p. 4. 
[12] OJ L 99, 17.4.2003, p. 8. 
[13] OJ L 99, 17.4.2003, p. 15. 
[14] OJ L 99, 17.4.2003, p. 8. 
[15] OJ L 99, 17.4.2003, p. 15. 
[16] Not yet published in the Official Journal. 
[17] Opinion delivered on 8 April 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal). 
[18] See page 8 of this Official Journal. 
[19] OJ L 164, 14.7.1995, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 334/2002 (OJ L 53, 23.2.2002, p. 23). 
[20] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. 
[21] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 36. 
[22] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 31. 
[23] OJ L 131, 1.6.2000, p. 43. 
[24] OJ L 64, 7.3.2002, p. 20. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
ANNEX 18 
Table of representation for issuing uniform visas 
| BE | DK | DE | EL | ES | FR | IT | LU | NL | AT | PT | FI | SE | IS | NO | 
AFGHANISTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kabul | | | x | | | x | x | | | | | | | | x | 
ALBANIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tirana | NL | x | x | x | FR | x | x | NL | x | x | FR | DK | DK | DK | x | 
Gjirokaster | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Korutsa | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Scutari | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Valona | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
ALGERIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Algiers | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | DK | x | DK | DK | 
Annaba | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
Oran | | | | | x | x | | | | | | | | | | 
ANDORRA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Andorra-La-Vella | FR | | FR | FR | x | x | | FR | FR | ES | ES | | | | | 
ANGOLA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Luanda | x | NO | x | PT | x | x | x | BE | x | PT | x | | x | NO | x | 
Benguela | | | | | | | | | | PT | x | | | | | 
ARGENTINA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Buenos Aires | x | SE | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | NO | x | 
Bahia Blanca | | | | | x | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Cordoba | | | | | x | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Mendoza | | | | | x | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Rosario — Santa Fé | | | | | x | | x | | | | | | | | | 
La Plata | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Mar del Plata | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
ARMENIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Yerevan | DE | | x | x | IT | x | x | DE | DE | DE | FR | IT | DE | FR | FR | 
AUSTRALIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Canberra | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | NO | x | 
Adelaide | | | | x | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Brisbane | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Melbourne | | | x | x | x | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Perth | | | | x | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Sydney | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | | x | x | | DK | DK | 
AZERBAIJAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Baku | DE | | x | x | FR | x | x | DE | DE | FR | FR | NO | NO | NO | x | 
BAHRAIN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Manama | DE | DE | x | FR | FR | x | x | DE | DE | FR | FR | DE | DE | DE | DE | 
BANGLADESH | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Dhaka | NL | x | x | IT | FR | x | x | NL | x | FR | FR | DK | x | DK | x | 
BELARUS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Minsk | DE | | x | x | FR | x | x | DE | DE | DE | FR | | | FR | FR | 
BENIN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cotonou | x | x | x | FR | FR | x | FR | NL | x | FR | FR | NL | DK | DK | DK | 
BHUTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Thimphu | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
BOLIVIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
La Paz | x | x | x | ES | x | x | x | BE | x | ES | FR | NL | | DK | DK | 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Sarajevo | NL | x | x | x | x | x | x | NL | x | x | x | DK | x | DK | x | 
BOTSWANA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Gaborone | FR | SE | x | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | DE | DE | DE | x | SE | SE | 
BRAZIL | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Brasilia | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Belém | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
Belo Horizonte | | | | | | | x | | | | x | | | | | 
Curitiba | | | | | | | x | | | | x | | | | | 
Porto Alegre | | | x | | x | | x | | | | x | | | | | 
Recife | | | x | | | | x | | | | x | | | | | 
Rio de Janeiro | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | NL | | NO | x | 
Salvador-Bahia | | | | | x | | | | | | x | | | | | 
Santos | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
São Paulo | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | | x | NL | | DK | DK | 
BRUNEI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bandar Seri Begawan | FR | | x | FR | DE | x | | FR | FR | FR | DE | | | | DE | 
BULGARIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Sofia | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Plovdiv | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
BURKINA FASO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ouagadougou | x | x | x | FR | FR | x | FR | BE | x | FR | FR | NL | DK | DK | DK | 
BURUNDI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bujumbura | x | | BE | BE | BE | x | BE | BE | BE | BE | FR | | FR | | | 
CAMBODIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Phnom Penh | DE | | x | FR | FR | x | DE | DE | DE | FR | FR | | FR | FR | FR | 
CAMEROON | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Yaoundé | x | FR | x | x | x | x | x | BE | BE | BE | ES | | IT | | BE | 
Douala | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
CANADA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ottawa | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Hamilton | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Montreal | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | DE | x | | | | | 
Toronto | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | DE | x | x | | FI | FI | 
Vancouver | NL | | x | x | | x | x | NL | x | DE | x | | | | | 
CAPE VERDE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Praia | FR | | FR | | PT | x | | FR | FR | PT | x | | FR | | | 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bangui | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | | | | 
CHAD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
N'Djamena | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | | | | | | 
CHILE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Santiago | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
CHINA (PR) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Beijing | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Canton (Guangzhou) | NL | x | x | | | x | x | NL | x | | DE | | x | DK | DK | 
Shanghai | x | x | x | AT | x | x | x | BE | x | x | AT | x | x | DK | x | 
Hong Kong | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | | DE | x | x | DK | FI | 
Macau | | | PT | PT | | | | | | PT | x | | | | | 
Wuhan | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
COLOMBIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bogotá | x | SE | x | ES | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | SE | x | SE | x | 
COMOROS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Moroni | FR | | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | | | | 
CONGO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Brazzaville | x | | FR | FR | BE | x | x | BE | BE | FR | FR | | | | | 
Pointe-Noire | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
CONGO (DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kinshasa | x | SE | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | FR | x | BE | x | SE | SE | 
Lubumbashi | x | | | x | | | | BE | BE | | | | | | | 
Matadi | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
COSTA RICA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
San José | x | | x | ES | x | x | x | BE | x | ES | ES | ES | ES | FR | | 
COTE D'IVOIRE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Abidjan | x | SE | x | FR | x | x | x | BE | BE | x | ES | SE | x | SE | x | 
CROATIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Zagreb | x | NO | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | NO | x | 
Split | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Rijeka (Fiume) | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
CUBA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Havana | x | SE | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | SE | x | SE | x | 
CYPRUS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Nicosia | DE | DE | x | x | x | x | x | DE | DE | DE | FR | x | FI | DE | DE | 
CZECH REPUBLIC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Prague | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
DJIBOUTI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Djibouti | FR | | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | FR | | | 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Santo Domingo | NL | FR | x | ES | x | x | x | NL | x | ES | ES | NL | ES | FR | NL | 
ECUADOR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Quito | x | | x | ES | x | x | x | BE | x | DE | ES | | | | | 
EGYPT | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Cairo | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Alexandria | | | | x | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
EL SALVADOR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
San Salvador | ES | | x | ES | x | x | x | ES | ES | ES | FR | ES | | | | 
EQUATORIAL GUINEA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Malabo | ES | | ES | ES | x | x | ES | ES | ES | ES | ES | | ES | | | 
Bata | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | 
ERITREA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Asmara | NL | NL | x | DE | DE | DE | x | NL | x | | DE | NL | NL | NL | NL | 
ESTONIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tallinn | DE | x | x | DE | DE | x | x | DE | x | x | FR | x | x | DK | x | 
ETHIOPIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Addis Ababa | x | NO | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | ES | x | x | FI | x | 
FIJI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Suva | FR | | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | FR | FR | FR | 
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Skopje | NL | | x | x | FR | x | x | NL | x | x | FR | | AT | FR | x | 
GABON | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Libreville | x | | FR | FR | x | x | x | BE | BE | BE | ES | | ES | | | 
GEORGIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tbilisi | | | x | x | DE | x | x | FR | x | FR | DE | DE | FR | FR | FR | 
GHANA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Accra | NL | x | x | ES | x | x | x | NL | x | FR | ES | DK | DK | DK | DK | 
GUATEMALA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Guatemala City | NL | SE | x | ES | x | x | x | NL | x | x | ES | ES | x | SE | x | 
GUINEA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Conakry | x | | x | DE | FR | x | FR | | | FR | DE | | | | | 
GUINEA-BISSAU | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bissau | FR | | FR | PT | PT | x | | FR | FR | PT | x | PT | PT | | | 
HAITI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Port-au-Prince | FR | FR | | ES | x | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | ES | | FR | | FR | 
HOLY SEE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Vatican City (Rome) | x | | x | x | x | | x | BE | x | x | x | | | | | 
HONDURAS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tegucigalpa | ES | | x | ES | x | x | x | ES | ES | ES | ES | ES | | | | 
HUNGARY | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Budapest | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
INDIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
New Delhi | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Mumbai (Bombay) | x | | x | FR | | x | x | BE | x | | | | IT | | | 
Kolkata (Calcutta) | | | x | | | | x | | | | | | IT | IT | IT | 
Goa | | | | PT | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
Chennai (Madras) | | DE | x | | | | | | | | | | DE | | DE | 
Pondichery | | | | FR | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
INDONESIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Jakarta | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
IRAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tehran | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
IRAQ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Baghdad | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | | x | 
IRELAND | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Dublin | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
ISRAEL | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tel Aviv | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Jerusalem | x | | | x | x | x | x | BE | BE | | | | x | | | 
Haifa | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
JAMAICA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kingston | FR | | x | ES | x | x | DE | | | ES | ES | | | | FR | 
JAPAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tokyo | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Osaka-Kobe | x | | x | IT | | | x | BE | x | | | | | | | 
JORDAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Amman | x | NO | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | ES | NO | x | NO | x | 
KAZAKHSTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Almaty | NL | | x | x | x | x | x | NL | x | DE | FR | NL | NL | NL | NL | 
KENYA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Nairobi | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
(NORTH) KOREA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Pyongyang | | SE | x | SE | DE | | SE | | | DE | DE | SE | x | SE | | 
(SOUTH) KOREA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Seoul | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
KUWAIT | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kuwait City | x | AT | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | ES | DE | NL | | DE | 
KYRGYZSTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bishkek | DE | | x | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | | DE | 
LAOS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Vientiane | FR | SE | x | DE | DE | x | DE | FR | FR | FR | DE | | x | SE | SE | 
LATVIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Riga | NL | x | x | FR | DE | x | x | NL | x | x | FR | x | x | DK | x | 
LEBANON | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Beirut | x | FR | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | ES | AT | IT | FR | | 
LIBERIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Monrovia | | | x | | x | | x | | | | | | | | | 
LIBYA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tripoli | x | DE | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | | ES | IT | DE | | DE | 
Benghazi | | | | x | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
LITHUANIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Vilnius | x | x | x | BE | DK | x | x | BE | BE | x | FR | x | x | DK | x | 
MADAGASCAR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Antananarivo | DE | | x | FR | FR | x | | DE | DE | DE | FR | | | FR | FR | 
Diego-Suarez | | | | FR | FR | x | | | | | FR | | | FR | FR | 
Tamatave | | | | FR | FR | x | | | | | FR | | | FR | FR | 
Majunga | | | | FR | FR | x | | | | | FR | | | FR | FR | 
MALAWI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Lilongwe | DE | NO | x | DE | DE | DE | | DE | DE | DE | DE | | NO | NO | x | 
MALAYSIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kuala Lumpur | x | x | x | ES | x | x | x | x | x | x | ES | x | x | DK | x | 
MALI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bamako | x | | x | FR | FR | x | FR | NL | x | FR | FR | | FR | | | 
MALTA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Valletta | FR | | x | IT | FR | x | x | FR | FR | DE | FR | | | | | 
MAURITANIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Nouakchott | FR | | x | FR | x | x | ES | FR | FR | ES | ES | | | | | 
MAURITIUS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Port Louis | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | FR | FR | FR | 
MEXICO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Mexico City | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Guadalajara | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | 
MOLDOVA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Chisinau | | | x | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
MONACO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Monaco | FR | | FR | FR | FR | x | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | | | | | 
MONGOLIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ulan Bator | DE | | x | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | | DE | DE | | 
MOROCCO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Rabat | | SE | x | x | x | x | x | NL | x | x | x | x | x | SE | x | 
Agadir | | | | | x | x | | | | | | | | | | 
Casablanca | x | | | x | x | x | x | BE | | | | | | | | 
Fez | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
Marrakesh | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
Nador | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tangier | | | | | x | x | | | | | | | | | | 
Tetouan | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | 
MOZAMBIQUE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Maputo | NL | x | x | PT | x | x | x | NL | x | NL | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Beira | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
MYANMAR (BURMA) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Rangoon | DE | | x | DE | FR | x | x | DE | DE | DE | FR | | | DE | DE | 
NAMIBIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Windhoek | NL | FI | x | NL | x | x | x | NL | x | DE | ES | x | FI | FI | FI | 
NEPAL | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kathmandu | DE | x | x | FR | FR | x | FR | DE | DE | DE | FR | x | FI | DK | x | 
NEW ZEALAND | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Wellington | NL | NL | x | x | DE | x | x | NL | x | DE | FR | NL | NL | | NL | 
NICARAGUA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Managua | NL | x | x | ES | x | x | x | NL | x | ES | ES | x | x | DK | x | 
NIGER | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Niamey | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | | | | 
NIGERIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Abuja | | SE | x | | | x | x | | x | | | | x | NO | x | 
Lagos | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | | x | x | x | | | | 
OMAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Muscat | NL | AT | x | FR | FR | x | x | NL | x | x | FR | AT | AT | | NL | 
PAKISTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Islamabad | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Karachi | | | x | IT | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
PANAMA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Panama City | ES | | x | ES | x | x | x | ES | ES | ES | ES | | | | | 
PAPUA NEW GUINEA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Port Moresby | FR | | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | FR | FR | FR | 
PARAGUAY | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Asunción | ES | DE | x | ES | x | x | x | ES | ES | ES | ES | DE | | | | 
PERU | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Lima | x | FI | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | FI | FI | FI | 
PHILIPPINES | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Manila | x | NO | x | ES | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | NO | x | 
POLAND | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Warsaw | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Wroclaw | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Gdansk | | | x | | | | | | | | | | x | | | 
Krakow | | | x | | | x | | | | x | | | | | | 
Szczecin | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
QATAR | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Doha | DE | FR | x | FR | FR | x | x | DE | DE | DE | FR | DE | | FR | DE | 
ROMANIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bucharest | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Constantza | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Sibiu | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Timisoara | | | x | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
RUSSIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Moscow | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Murmansk | | | | | | | | | | | | x | NO | FI | x | 
Novorossisk | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Novosibirsk | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Petrozavodsk | | | | | | | | | | | | x | FI | | | 
Saratov | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
St Petersburg | NL | x | x | x | | x | x | NL | x | FI | | x | x | DK | x | 
RWANDA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kigali | x | | x | BE | DE | x | DE | BE | x | BE | FR | NL | BE | | | 
ST LUCIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Castries | FR | | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | FR | | | 
SAN MARINO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
San Marino | IT | | IT | IT | IT | IT | x | IT | IT | IT | IT | | | | | 
SÃO TOMÉ AND PRINCIPE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
São Tomé | PT | | PT | PT | PT | PT | PT | PT | PT | PT | x | | | | | 
SAUDI ARABIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Riyadh | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Jedda | | | | x | | x | x | | | x | | | | | | 
SENEGAL | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Dakar | x | SE | x | AT | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | SE | x | SE | SE | 
St Louis | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Belgrade | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Podgorica | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Kosovo/Pristina | | | x | | | | x | | | | | | x | | | 
SEYCHELLES | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Victoria | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | FR | | FR | 
SIERRA LEONE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Freetown | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
SINGAPORE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Singapore | x | x | x | FR | x | x | x | BE | x | FR | DE | x | x | DK | x | 
SLOVAKIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bratislava | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | | x | 
SLOVENIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ljubljana | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | FR | x | x | SE | x | 
Koper | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
SOMALIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Mogadishu | | | x | | | x | x | | | | | | | | | 
SOUTH AFRICA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Pretoria | x | x | | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Capetown | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | | | | 
Durban | | | | x | | | x | | | | x | | | | | 
Johannesburg | x | | x | x | | x | x | BE | | | x | | | | | 
SRI LANKA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Colombo | NL | NO | x | IT | FR | x | x | NL | x | DE | FR | SE | x | NO | x | 
SUDAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Khartoum | NL | | x | x | FR | x | x | NL | x | DE | FR | | IT | | | 
SURINAME | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Paramaribo | NL | NL | NL | NL | NL | x | NL | NL | x | NL | NL | | NL | | NL | 
SWITZERLAND | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Berne | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Geneva | x | | x | x | x | x | x | x | | x | x | | | | | 
Zurich | | | | | x | x | x | | | | x | | | | | 
Basle | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Lugano | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Lausanne | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
St-Gallen | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
SYRIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Damascus | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | FR | x | x | DK | x | 
Aleppo | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
TAJIKISTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Dushanbe | DE | | x | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | | DE | 
TANZANIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Dar-es-Salaam | x | x | x | FR | x | x | x | BE | x | BE | ES | x | x | DK | x | 
THAILAND | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Bangkok | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
TIMOR-LESTE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Dili | | | | PT | | | | | | | x | PT | | | PT | 
TOGO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Lomé | FR | | x | FR | FR | x | | FR | FR | FR | FR | | | | | 
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Port-of-Spain | NL | NL | x | | FR | x | DE | NL | x | FR | DE | NL | NL | NL | NL | 
TUNISIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tunis | x | FI | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | NO | FI | x | 
Sfax | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | 
TURKEY | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ankara | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Edirne | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Istanbul | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | | | | | | 
Izmir | | | x | x | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
TURKMENISTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Ashgabat | DE | | x | DE | DE | x | DE | DE | DE | DE | DE | | | | DE | 
UGANDA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kampala | x | x | x | FR | FR | x | x | BE | x | FR | FR | | x | DK | x | 
UKRAINE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Kiev | x | NO | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | DE | x | x | NO | x | 
Mariupol | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Odessa | | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Abu Dhabi | x | | x | x | x | x | x | BE | BE | ES | ES | x | x | NO | x | 
Dubai | NL | x | x | | | x | x | NL | x | | | | | | | 
UNITED KINGDOM | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
London | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Bedford | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Edinburgh-Glasgow | | | x | | x | x | x | | | | | | | NO | x | 
Hamilton (Bermuda) | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
Manchester | | | | | x | | x | | | | | | | | | 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (USA) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Washington | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Atlanta | x | | x | x | | x | | BE | BE | | | | | | | 
Boston | | | x | x | x | x | x | | | | x | | | | | 
Chicago | AT | | x | x | x | x | x | AT | x | x | | | | | | 
Detroit | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
Houston | | x | x | x | x | x | x | | x | | | | | | x | 
Los Angeles | x | FI | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | | x | x | | | 
Miami | NL | | x | | x | x | x | NL | x | | | | | | | 
Minneapolis | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | x | 
Newark | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
New Bedford | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
New Orleans | | | | x | x | x | | | | | | | | | | 
New York | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | x | DK | x | 
Philadelphia | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
San Francisco | LU | | x | x | x | x | x | x | LU | | x | | | | x | 
Providence | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
San Juan (Porto Rico) | | | | | x | ES | | | | | | | | | | 
URUGUAY | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Montevideo | NL | NL | x | x | x | x | x | NL | x | ES | x | NL | NL | NL | NL | 
UZBEKISTAN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Tashkent | FR | | x | IT | DE | x | x | FR | FR | DE | FR | DE | | FR | IT | 
VANUATU | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Port Vila | FR | | FR | FR | FR | x | FR | FR | FR | FR | FR | | | | | 
VENEZUELA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Caracas | x | NO | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | NO | NO | x | 
Valencia | | | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | 
Maracay | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 
VIETNAM | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Hanoi | x | x | x | DE | x | x | x | BE | x | x | DE | x | x | DK | x | 
Ho-Chi Minh City (Saigon) | NL | | x | DE | | x | | NL | x | DE | | | | | | 
YEMEN | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Sana'a | NL | DE | x | FR | FR | x | x | NL | x | FR | DE | NL | FR | | NL | 
Aden | | | x | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
ZAMBIA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Lusaka | NL | x | x | IT | FR | x | x | NL | x | DE | FR | x | x | DK | x | 
ZIMBABWE | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 
Harare | x | NO | x | x | x | x | x | BE | x | x | x | x | x | NO | x | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
