Amendment by France of public service obligations in respect of scheduled air services between Strasbourg and Milan (Malpensa) (Text with EEA relevance) 
Amendment by France of public service obligations in respect of scheduled air services between Strasbourg and Milan (Malpensa) 
(2006/C 246/05) 
(Text with EEA relevance) 
1. France has decided to amend, with effect from 25 March 2007, the public service obligation imposed on scheduled air services between Strasbourg and Milan (Malpensa/Linate/Bergamo) published in the Official Journal of the European Communities No C 257 of 25 October 2003 pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 of 23 July 1992 on access for Community air carriers to intra-Community air routes. 
2. The public service obligation is as follows: 
2.1. Minimum frequency and capacity 
The minimum level of service provided between Strasbourg and Milan must be two round trips per day from Monday to Friday, all year round except for the month of August, when there must be a minimum of one round trip per day, from Monday to Friday. The flights in question must be non-stop. 
2.2. Type of aircraft used and minimum capacity provided 
The services must be operated by aircraft with at least 25 seats. 
2.3. Timetables 
The first flight in the day departing from Milan must leave at a time that enables flights from Italian cities and other European countries to connect. 
The timetable must coincide with parliamentary sessions, i.e. arriving at Strasbourg close to but no later than 14:00 for the session beginning at 15:00 and leaving Strasbourg close to but no earlier than 17:00, when the sessions end. 
The two daily rotations must enable passengers to make a return trip in one day. 
2.4. Flight bookings 
Seats on these flights must be marketed by a computerised booking system. 
2.5. Continuity of service 
Except in cases of force majeure, the number of flights cancelled for reasons directly attributable to the carrier must not exceed 2 % of the number of flights scheduled in any IATA scheduling season. The carrier must give a minimum of six months' notice before discontinuing these services. 
Community carriers are hereby informed that the operation of air services without regard to the abovementioned public service obligation may result in administrative and/or criminal penalties. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
