Case T-63/06: Action brought on 16 February 2006 — Eyropaïki Dynamiki v EMCDDA 
Action brought on 16 February 2006 — Eyropaïki Dynamiki v EMCDDA 
Parties 
Applicant: Eyropaïki Dynamiki — Proigmena Systimata Tilepikoinonion Pliroforikis kai Tilematikis AE (Athens, Greece) [represented by: N. Korogiannakis, lawyer] 
Defendant: The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction 
Form of order sought 
- Annul the decision of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction to evaluate the applicant's bid as not successful and award the contract to the successful contractor, 
- order the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction to pay the applicant's legal and other costs and expenses incurred in connection with this application as well as damages stemming from the tendering procedure. 
Pleas in law and main arguments 
The applicant submitted a bid in response to an open call for tender by the defendant for software programming and consultancy services (JO 2005/S 187-183846). The applicant contests the decision to reject its bid and to award the contract to another bidder. 
In support of its application, the applicant submits that the contested decision was taken in violation of the principle of non-discrimination and transparency, as well as in violation of Directive 92/50 [1] and the Financial Regulation [2]. According to the applicant, its bid was rejected on criteria that were not included in the contract notice. The applicant also claims that the defendant failed to request clarifications from the applicant and therefore infringed the principle of good administration. Finally, the applicant submits that the contested decision contains evident errors of assessment. 
[1] Council Directive 92/50/EEC of 18 June 1992 relating to the coordination of procedures for the award of public service contracts (OJ L 209, p. 1) 
[2] Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 248, p. 1) 
-------------------------------------------------- 
