Judgment of the Court (First Chamber) of 13 October 2005 in Case C-458/03: Reference for a preliminary ruling from the Verwaltungsgericht, Autonome Sektion für die Provinz Bozen, Parking Brixen GmbH v Gemeinde Brixen, Stadtwerke Brixen AG (Public procurement — Procedures for the award of public contracts — Service concession — Management of public pay car parks) 
Judgment of the Court 
(First Chamber) 
of 13 October 2005 
in Case C-458/03: Reference for a preliminary ruling from the Verwaltungsgericht, Autonome Sektion für die Provinz Bozen, Parking Brixen GmbH v Gemeinde Brixen, Stadtwerke Brixen AG [1] 
In Case C-458/03: Reference for a preliminary ruling under Article 234 EC from the Verwaltungsgericht, Autonome Sektion für die Provinz Bozen (Italy), made by decision of 23 July 2003, received at the Court on 30 October 2003, in the proceedings between Parking Brixen GmbH and Gemeinde Brixen and Stadtwerke Brixen AG — the Court (First Chamber), composed of P. Jann, President of the Chamber, K. Schiemann, K. Lenaerts, J.N. Cunha Rodrigues (Rapporteur) and E. Juhász, Judges; J. Kokott, Advocate General; M.-F. Contet, Principal Administrator, for the Registrar, gave a judgment on 13 October 2005, the operative part of which is as follows: 
1. The award, by a public authority to a service provider, of the management of a public pay car park, in consideration for which that provider is remunerated by sums paid by third parties for the use of that car park, is a public service concession to which Council Directive 92/50/EEC of 18 June 1992 relating to the coordination of procedures for the award of public service contracts does not apply. 
2. Articles 43 EC and 49 EC, and the principles of equal treatment, non-discrimination and transparency, are to be interpreted as precluding a public authority from awarding, without putting it out to tender, a public service concession to a company limited by shares which resulted from the conversion of a special undertaking of that public authority, whose objects have been extended to significant new areas, whose capital must obligatorily be opened in the short term to other capital, the geographical area of whose activities has been extended to the entire country and abroad, and whose Administrative Board possesses very broad management powers which it can exercise independently. 
[1] OJ C 7 of 10.01.2004. 
-------------------------------------------------- 
