if what follows seems too long we can always stop there with profit and summarize by saying that this is unprecedented, and it's good that the book deserves a purchase. "he was forced to review and as he respected by physical disgust she believed that he courted for good reason.
drieu ( "notes ...") no doubt ...
it is beyond the grave as the shot comes again we achieve with these "notes for a novel on sexuality." bright and ambitious text.
minor board reading: read the introduction (very long) of hervier at the end.
one can only dream of the novel could have given those thirty pages, yet so strange, even if it is indeed a canvas, this short text is sufficient in itself and includes a work commme fully fledged.
ten years of acute awareness of themselves and women in particular who constantly fail on sex swollen main character.
rites of love and death, first and probably last shake before the storm of steel in 1914, then perhaps put an end once and for all.
the first pages of "notes ..." are writing this with extraordinary clinical enferrée in this narrative: drieu writes like a doctor who would be his or her own patient.
he observed, is like dissecting an oncologist by the etiology of its own tumor.
cancer sex, tumor in the soul that never ceases to gnaw.
strange story that is not one, drieu tells nothing and it shows the light illuminates not necessarily nice places: masturbation, inclinations of 'invert hurting others and therefore themselves, soiling themselves, kill themselves?
on vision and all the writing does not give us a metaphor in thirty pages!
the character lights or more precisely was constructed in real time under the eyes of the reader as in "sentimental education." staining then.
having no other pascal book a little under two, he experienced an extreme physical ordeal that took a tour of a disqualification "...
or: "she does not undress (...) he rudely insists he wants to see.
he is ugly and not very young, but he is in ecstasy.
it has very quickly and, of course, he is very disappointed (...) "the rhythm of the sentence is engaged, the coil can project its celluloid frames.
huge writer s'ausculte saying "he" rather than "i", for shame!
in the words of ernst jünger with his usual malice "we exchanged in 1915 a few shots.
drieu" my companion and walking meditation unbeaten in the bag to the high station i saw pierced by more than one mortal blow on the parapet bare our modest (...) metempsychosis burning altar, he dedicated his soul to me (...) i received prompt migration of his eternal passion "pierre drieu la rochelle" metempsychosis " canteen fund. 1920 he may not be missed.
