another one of those books for the nostalgic "good old days" when the grammar was boring, or school was boring and sad, and students waited one thing: the playground and in the longer term holidays.
today the school has placed the student center system, she decided to make good heads rather than well-filled heads.
however, summarizing the history of the french school "before, and it was very strict and everyone was leaving the school learned to read, then there's been educators and suddenly the school became fun but all students have become dunces "as do such authors is foolish and untrue.
no there is no need for schools to be an ordeal to be useful.
yes it is more useful "learning to learn" in order to then be formed independently as to reap knowledge by heart.
no students are not really more stupid today than yesterday: it was just "leveled" credentials: obviously the average level of today's graduates is below that of bachelors ago 40 age: 40 years ago, not even 10% of students would finish college, others went to work from the factory to 16 years at best.
today they are 80% to go to the ferry.
then force the "level of the tank" down but not that of the population.
finally, for those who want an alternative to our system that we must admit has many weaknesses, look at what is on the side of world champions: the finns.
first global culture of science and reading, second in global culture of mathematics.
the finnish have everything to teach us: and yet ...
yet their methods are the exact opposite of what advocates brighelli or boutonnet.
for 30 years, our system that supposedly broke the figure has been, from the pc, evolve slowly towards the finnish style.
a reversal would then depart from the methods of world champions.
is it better than continuing to walk towards the finnish model?
our biggest mistake is to have stopped halfway and then have a system that sometimes lacks consistency.
the return to the status quo antes certainly would solve this problem, but at what price?
a question that brighelli not respond, and that's a shame.
