"all that for that." thus one is tempted to exclaim on reading candy pink, whose publication sparked a pretty hurly-burly media.
why this book when so many other literary mediocrities littering the shelves and are inflicted on an audience sometimes a little voyeuristic.
that flame in the press in this wave of indignation anti-censorship, often fierce supporters of a "moral" much stronger than they are struggling to denounce.
the pruritus of literary freedom is gone, let's see if the fuss was worth it.
in short, exorcize, since we are invited!
the subject deals with a man chained to pedophiles who drives his story drifts and desires of repentance in a verbal delirium.
monologue caricature of a monster that can cause the rejection, and indeed the intention of the author.
the whole story is on a headlong rush, a "gesture" personal scorched earth, a gradual sinking and content in horror to the irreversible destruction even the narrator.
let's remove the word pedophile and that text is not worth much, the subject of scandal being withdrawn.
vulgarity and the desired kind of "scat" permanent record that litter the pages like sub-san antonio, so this comparison was possible.
in rose candy while out in vomit inconstruit, chaotic, spastic.
it supports supports it or not, it depends, but the hype of "pee-poo-popo-corny" to length of fatigue pages long, and splashed over the mind of the dirt that it satisfies d ' reflection on pedophilia.
add your buttocks do not add talent.
in substance, i suppose that reading the 10th degree could make a denunciation of pedophilia but hay ratiocinations too extensive, it is ultimately just soliciting.
for in fact, this story tries to snatch a smile to the reader through the verbal juggling a monster without faith or law, and thereby plays down the purely abject and sordid pedophile problem.
if there was an apology for slavery, even as a fun, great minds they could not unanimously condemned the book?
let it therefore as the route of a trafficker in human flesh, with little remorse.
funny really that country or the universal declarations of human rights and child used toilet paper to writers in search of new "freedoms".
how to get complacent definitely say that the prohibition of this novel is a return to moral order.
among those who occupy the ground media and the public sphere, many people in high places, were tenderness, sometimes just intellectual, for lovers "minor".
hue and cry is now on the ass pedophile, okay, but the ass is always in heat!
we s'atermoie, it takes a pretty cellophane on the cover of the book with a note specifying that "pink candy is a work of fiction" and no "approximation can be made between the monologue of a pedophile and an imaginary advocating pedophilia "and of course, that" it is the reader to form an opinion on this book, to advise or to discourage the reading, love, hate him, freely " .
just making up this story that was really hard to draw novel, by single highlighted a consuming passion for children.
it is this exclusive passion, monstrous, disproportionate, which is also found in pornographic phenomenon, which grows to no longer see the man in front of you but an object of consumption, simple handkerchief thrown after have used it and of course, wrinkled and crumpled.
the reification of being is the ultimate end point of the liberation of the passions and impulses.
the author of pretty in pink is aware although expressing so strong belching, and erection if i may use the spin.
otherwise, we can largely dispense with the flogging that inflicts the house gallimard.
if you still want to read it, get yourself a nose clip, odor is very gamy.
