lou gramm (-atico) is another part of my life!
lou had left a k7 demo of his group then (black sheep, totally uninteresting): ...
mick jones and ian macdonald (ex king crimson) held their lead singer!
after there was "cold as ice," "feels like the firt time, tubes solid gold truck" blue morning "," hot blooded, "" urgent "criticism lance-shaped flames in france and elsewhere: rock-fm?
not the guts to make a real hard disk?
damn it all.
and i do not care styles, and sectorization.
then it became huge: "i want to know what love is", the only (!) number 1 in the usa, slow-gospel with a beautiful chorus of vocalists black clip stupid, and a little too synth taste of lou gramm.
anyway with the arrival of transparent and tasteless rick wills on bass, this group had already lost a lot of his soul.
solo career two protagonists: zero for micky, but all-round producer.
solo, cons by quite brilliant for lou with another number 1 usa "midnight blue" and a lot of interesting experiences including a tremendous reversal of an niaserie beatlessienne "eight days a week," another of wilson pickett chains of fool ", with nile rodgers!
a cover of "stairway to heaven", a short-lived group with vivian campbell, and his trusty bassist bruce torgon.
then reformation, a foreigner (with passage taratata ( "rain," mr moonlight album, watch the video and the duet with jojo, "hey joe"), and then the "double vision", but for real!
he left foreigner , did some concerts with his brothers, bruce and always torgon, and eventually re-group, which reads the first album.
well i wanted to love it, i stick it in a loop in the "walkman" be happy to know alive and singing, singing in the mirror, find the powerful melodies ( "do what ^ you like), but not unheard ( "break it up") the verve ( "soul doctor" rev on the red line "), the simple words (" dirty white boy "), even simplistic (" fool for you anyway ").
there is nothing like here: it became a sort of white metal (apology of religion!) distressing banality, or lou spends most of the songs to thank" him "who the 'saved.
the songs are neither good nor bad, they are bland and soulless, with a production that has clearly sought to "strengthen" the voice of the highlight but can not.
i hope that the future will prove me otherwise, but i doubt it.
nothing to see, but i saw the next clip "foreigner-new-look" here is not worth trippet not, the album is not out yet, but it is feared the worst, despite the excellent dvd of the concert badlingen, (and before a public hardos)!
