it has probably already said everything about these two films evangelion.
so i will not be too long a critic of the film itself.
forget also the first disc of this dvd "death and rebirth", which is irrelevant: the first is a montage / summary of the series (death) history of extending the second part (rebirth), which had left incomplete in japan.
this second part is directly integrated with real film "the end of evangelion", there is clearly no reason to dwell on it.
the bulk of it is so big it: this feature more than 1:30 which is supposed to conclude the series.
so, this film has no interest which has not seen the series before.
because ultimately, this was supposed to please the fans disappointed by the tv version.
but ultimately this tells us exactly the same thing, except it's more beautiful and more psychedelic.
better than the original ending?
we take great moments of pure pleasure free (asuka is a real fury in the film and it is good fun), or you feel a little guilty sometimes find jouissif all this violence.
and in the end it brings more questions than answers.
a real snub to fans a great show and conducted a master hand.
the problem is this dvd edition.
from the jacket certainly pretty, but from an artwork unrelated to the film, the bonus ...
and while watching, i have always regretted that dybex did not get the rights (i also wonder why).
when we launched the drive, we feel that there will be glitches allowed by 3d ultra-cheap menu, there is a choice between launching the film, languages, chapters and bonus.
let's go around the level of bonuses: the pavement materials for gainax and the main characters.
nice, but it would have done better in the booklet accompanying the dvd (oh sorry!
let us then in languages: having no home entertainment, i'm glad the film is proposed in japanese 2.0 (stereo).
but, and mixing in 5.1?
bah y'en no!
only for the french, english and italian (??????).
well do with and do the film.
not only because the early doublers are evil, but because they had the wonderful idea of replacing the entire cast over dubbing of the series (which were not well known, but for continuity it would have been better to take ).
good offer but still a good point at this level.
as for sound, even for stereo sometimes voices are muffled under the music, but come on!
i do not speak japanese, but i understand when someone speaks and there is nothing written underneath.
and history will not tread, the signs that appear on the screen (sometimes important), are not translated either.
should not forget that the subtitles are very poorly resolved: often late (the sentence is complete as the subtitle appears), or poorly calibrated (the sentence is cut strangely and appears after the end, creating a sense of mismatch between what is said and what we read).
in short you get the point!
this edition is a pure foutage of mouth.
