in this collection of short stories, eric-emmanuel schmitt addresses the theme of perception, purely subjective, we can not give to see the truth of one aspect or even completely hide us, making us true to what we think we see and understand things.
the first story, the longest, which gives the collection its title, leads the narrator, a writer who tries to recover from a breakup, to ostend.
through a friend, he obtained the address of a boarding house, kept by an old woman in a wheelchair.
if the niece of the latter considers his aunt as someone who has known nothing of life, the narrator senses a mystery surrounding it.
after a hospital stay resulting from an attack, the woman decides to entrust the narrator's great secret ... "perfect crime" is the story of a woman who, after thirty years of marriage, decides to push his husband in vacuum during a mountain hike.
thinking of having committed a perfect crime, she was surprised to learn that a shepherd witnessed the murder.
she continues to deny, and, apart from the shepherd, everyone shows the love that gabrielle and her late gab is wearing.
but, in fact, gabrielle why she killed her husband? "the cure" chronicles several days in the life of stephanie complexed young nurse, who returned to trust it with the compliments addressed to him by one of his patients, a very severely injured and suffering from blindness ...
in "bad plays," maurice plisson, a history professor who reads that very serious, and not indulging in the joys never guilty of fiction, will teach his expense the "bad" literature can go dangerously dependent and cause serious damage to health ...
the announcement that ends this book is also the shortest, "la femme au bouquet" in which a narrator writer wondered who this woman who comes every day for years, with a bouquet of flowers on the platform number 3 of the station of zurich, and always leaves alone, can wait.
the dreamer of ostend is a pleasant collection of short stories to read stories revolve around a common theme, that of truth (absolute but sometimes unavailable) and perception (relative and often misleading), it depicts characters whose lives are changed by the irruption of a unusual occurrence in their quiet life.
i loved all these stories, with the exception of "healing", which i found well below the rest, too explicit in its message less subtle than others.
the dreamer of ostend is a nice time playing, without pretension ...
