this disc has 11 songs as beautiful as each other!
occasionally, a record where one does not zap the songs every 30 seconds, it's good!
dido has a style all its own and takes us in his own world mixed with acoustic guitar, keyboards, strings, percussion.
dido's voice is absolutely beautiful, her voice is very special and this is its charm, it has a true identity!
this disc is very soft, the music is very beautiful and mixes well with the voice of the singer.
moreover, dido has a beautiful english accent and pure and it is very pleasant to hear the pure english!
the album is very consistent as it remains in the same style from beginning to end, this is certainly due to the fact that dido has a true musical style, unlike many singers.
dido the texts are also superb.
in fact, his lyrics are really personal and very sensitive, even melancholy "live for rent" is a beautiful song mixing reality and dreams about life, love a beautiful melody.
the same goes for the beautiful song "mary's in india" where dido evokes the pain of a friend who no longer lives since her friend is gone.
in "this land is mine" dido evokes his country, england, and his past, his people, wars, conquests, and she said that all the love she has for her country, saying that it is "the queen of her domain, she also deals with love, fractures, back to love in" white flag "and" stoned "with the concept of freedom in love," see you when 're 40 "when it deals with the maturity of relations," do not leave home (very pretty text here too) ... , "see the sun, created entirely by dido is beautiful, it promises new happiness to someone.
a magnificent "sand in my shoes" with a good rhythm through percussion and some nice guitar chords to discover urgently the bonus track "closer" played entirely on acoustic guitar, with a charming text, this song is very pretty, dido says she needs to be near the person she spoke, it suffices that it be well and happy.
the union of dido and her brother rollo armstrong (who was also present for the 1st album "no angel") works wonderfully.
