that the "greedy" be warned, this box is a poor compensation: a mixture of two seasons for 4 episodes (but lasting 100 minutes).
our hercule poirot we dose her genius touches, enough to seize and treat them justly!
point of excess, slow ...
and you will find the belgian detective retired to king's abbott, in a charming cottage where hercules runs his days gardening.
and as so often, when a detective in the vicinity there soon crime will rage!
the little gray cells of hercule poirot must be activated to unravel this plot where the suspect seems too obvious to be true.
in this episode, a little melancholy when hercules fleet and japp went to london and are facing the old apartment the detective, "full of ghosts" ...
in the episode that follows, "the knife on the neck," hercule poirot is seduced by the actress jane wilkinson, married to a wealthy man and detestable, who refuses to divorce.
this is not counting on hercules and his legendary foresight!
here is captain hastings who returns to london after his bankruptcy in argentina and shared the daily detective like old times.
in "murder in mesopotamia," hercules is traveled to iraq where the countess vera rosakov gave him an appointment!
locally, the man joined hastings and the nephew of one of the archaeological excavations.
and when death strikes, poirot decides to put his grain of salt! "the holidays hercule poirot" episode that completes the package: after a heart attack, hercules was ordered by his doctor to rest.
with captain hastings, he went to a hotel fitness on a small island in the south of england.
poirot feels the atmosphere electric and guess that a crime will be committed.
it seeks to prevent, but ...
this episode has already been adapted in 1982 by guy hamilton with peter ustinov in the role of the belgian detective, and some jane birkin was also included in the cast.
the film was good, but the 2002 version with david suchet is obviously more worked and caring attention to detail.
summary box: the murder of roger ackroyd / the knife on the neck / murder in mesopotamia / holidays hercule poirot.
the gallery bonus is, however, to fall.
