joel green said: reply from the author arnaud lemercier: this book is actually not made for someone who knows that even if the ip address of the adsl box is almost always "192.168.1.1", there may be exceptions, it is said to back this book is for beginners and it gives priority to the method and not the completeness of the content.
fyi, the printing is done in 8-color heidelberg offset by random pattern (450 lpi), which allows for printing without print dot visible to the naked aeil cons of impressions on the market that are in frame 150 or 175 and more often in black and white.
the layout is structured identically to that of our training manuals that are satisfying our customers for 15 years.
com "write a review of this book (in april 2007, he had nevertheless given 3.5 out of 5) criticism which i refused the release for several reasons: a specialist software development is not well placed to judge a book beginners (such as inappropriate remarks above on the ip address) and a rate of misspellings making incomprehensible comments.
herewith excerpts from mail correspondence: hello, i'm part of the team editor of www .
com i am writing to confirm the receipt of your book.
indeed, i am responsible for reading and criticizing your book before its publication on our site ...
given your experience as a young editor face to giants like ...
i work with always, i would be much more lenient on certain points of detail.
you do not have too much to worry about anything.
arnaud lemercier hello i just read the comment you made on the book that i sent you and i can not help but wonder what would have been if you had not been indulgent ... "it is only for an audience is beginning which earned him a few blunders that probably pass unnoticed; these blunders, i would have liked to know in order to respond.
i thanks to withdraw my criticism of your book.
green hello, this email follows the discontent mail you sent to louis william m. ..
as you requested, and since the critics had not yet been announced it has been withdrawn.
however, it has been published since i felt it was not bad, quite the contrary, and i think that this review could generate sales for your book (a view shared by other members of the editorial) .
otherwise, i would have passed the review by mail, without publication.
regards, db naigeon readers, you be the judge!
if other reviews of this type appear suddenly after a year and a half praise , put perhaps question their good faith and if you like this book, be sure to enter it here.
joel green author of "learn to make use of windows vista"
