wolverine is back, without the x-men and worn by the ever excellent hugh jackman.
logan and his half-brother victor beings are left to themselves, mutants that have gone through many wars together with their power of cell regeneration, which makes them virtually immortal and grants them eternal youth.
one day, the military stryker offers them to join a secret group of mutant assassins rather than face yet another unnecessary execution for treason.
while victor feels in his place, logan soon feels uneasy and left the band shortly after resuming a normal life and anonymous.
so it enjoys a peaceful life with his beloved , kayla, this is a day murdered by victor, trying to bring his brother.
eager for revenge, logan liberates the beast in him and accepts the offer of stryker to participate in a mysterious project intended to transform it into a weapon of destruction.
he realizes, however, the real intentions of the latter.
while the potential is enormous, we have a film that barely even accomplish its primary purpose: entertainment.
but mostly, the screenplay is no great logic (it sure is not today we will take the lead) and accumulated many bad shots come.
but the worst thing that bryan singer had in x-men 2, installed a seductive mystery of the origins of the character that augured the best.
this film and the striker almost spoil the view of x-men 2.
a few pieces of good courage involved, but others fall completely flat (especially initially), the slow clap at the very eye shots, special effects sometimes successful, sometimes very unconvincing (the blob) ...
but worse, and there is quite contrary to the spirit of the character is that the film is very watered down: do not expect to see bloodshed, all that remains very clean.
in terms of actors, hugh jackman is still excellent, taylor kitsch as gambit is great (which is all the more surprising given the role it has was written), and a few other good performers.
in contrast, others like liev schreiber tend to surjouer much and not convincing.
the film is also within easy cameos of famous characters.
it is not used much and we could have plenty to do without, but i guess it sounds enticing on paper.
but do not expect to see deadpool comics for example, that you discover is simply grotesque and unable to swing a single valve (recale it automatically).
ultimately, a blockbuster that can entertain at a transition tv, but nothing really worth the detour, and a bad addition to the x-men saga which is perhaps the worst opus.
