zakk wylde, the man who breathed a second youth's father ozzy, could never speak in an idiom that is dear to him: the southern-rock.
therefore, whenever the opportunity presented itself, he founded the group with two former white lion, james lorenzo on bass, and greg d'angelo on drums.
exultant to finally express themselves without barriers of any kind, zakk is a coward.
drunk with freedom, it is bursting with creative energy (almost half past one in which nothing is disposable - except for a title on the bonus cd?).
some titles, like "toe'n the line '" or "horse called war," foreshadowed the brutal "black label society.
in fact, based on a frame so southern-rock, zakk brings a very personal touch, more aggressive, wild and aggressive.
not the southern-rock had reached a climax in violence and savagery.
and, although occasionally a banjo or a piano comes to graft, bringing a touch more "roots", it remains a significantly heavy rock / hard rock.
for zakk plays hard, using his les paul (swollen with emg active pickups - to win by definition), supported by marshall jcm800, he does roar.
his scratching, sometimes to the verge of collapse, like a demon out of hell, seems to want to devour everything in its path.
even rickie medlocke the zenith of his career, seems, by comparison, wise and timid.
one foot in an "on tradition" of the 70's, and another in a modern 90's, including the approach to sound.
indeed, zakk idolized, at least at that time, both hendrix and jimmy page, that van halen and randy rhoads (incidentally, of course, by tommy iommi).
at the point of having their photo pasted on the front of his amp.
it does not oscillate between its many references, he has assimilated allied mixing which has emerged as his own personality.
zakk is also known to show a different face than the bloodthirsty brute, with songs (most of which anticipates "") as "lovin 'woman" (a ballad between a southerner and folk to led zep), "sweet jesus "&amp;" fadin 'away "(almost intimate ballads with piano and violins, dark and melancholy)," cry me a river (country-rock unrelated julie london), "hate your guts (a country like" song drinking "in the style of dick montana of the beat farmers), and" found a friend "(real ballad heavy, fleshy, with arpeggios wah-wah and chorus and wrenching solos).
zakk wylde, under his tunes player dilettante, is a true engineer, mastering all the shots of the classic-rock the 70's, through the southern rock (which also incorporates elements of country) and the heavy metal of the 80's.
solo, alongside the gargantuan bends cavalcades of frantic notes and harmonics that will be repeated whistled his trademark.
from time to time, it triggers a chorus pedal to thicken his riffs, or a complementary distal (boss superoverdrive) for the heaviest.
in big fan of the guitarists of the 70's, rotovibe (which mimics the effect leslie) is also part of his arsenal, and a wah-wah cry-baby (currently it is also a signature model).
there are even some passages in the slide (thick).
accomplished musician, he does not hesitate to play the banjo, mandolin or guitar folk (gibson "dove in flight"), as well as piano and harmonica ; not to mention the singing, which, similar to that of tired morning, hoarse and slightly muffled, but not lacking for much accuracy.
a voice in the tradition of the jim dandy of black oak arkansas.
a separate disc, sometimes regarded as the best director, ozzy albums included, this iconoclastic heavy rock.
this new edition offers, besides a very good remastering five bonus tracks, 3 times. "the wizzard" of sab ',' in my time of dyin ' "by led zep (most successful), and" come together "beatles (in a version with an unexpected piano instead of guitar), and 2 drops studio, including a pure country, and a ballad evo
