even if i do not doubt for a second that my criticism will call into question the religious aspect of the film, i give it anyway.
top gun, the movie to see when you're little, when we discover the film when do not understand much of what is happening but as there are beautiful fighters it goes alone.
now, when we see today, one word comes to mind: pathetic.
on a nullity incredibly, this movie is a pathetic cross between action film propagandist (although this is not serious in itself) and typical 80's sentimental melodrama straight out of an american high school: the handsome rebel who fucks her prof brainy blonde ...
the next "fall between two stools" of the film: on one side there are action scenes badly made, badly filmed (with identical scenes when an aircraft is destroyed or when a missile part, you know, as in films for years 60-70), which could well be the stock-shots, this is not even surprising.
on the other hand, one is left with a film scenario magnan magnan-packed romantic fool in bad taste, not original predictable that could hardly be of interest to someone other than a schoolgirl fan of the beautiful tom.
and we add over a good layer of hormones with unusual characters: the funny sidekick, but a bit ugly, the pretentious who finally admitted he is worse at the end ...
short, swimming association full of stupid things, made to please both fans of girls to boys and tom fan of planes and "buddy movies" two cents who love replicas and stuffed with vulgar insults swinging heroes, touting the possible, it might be fun if at least the film does not take himself seriously, but not.
besides this accumulation of scenes clichesques and tasteless, it has the right to a sequence ridiculous completed (the volleyball scene, the interest most dubious, the flirtations between tom and his girlfriend, who oscillate between pathos and comedy involuntary).
the cast is promised but not tom (love d 'habit) makes a ton, is too ill to major reinforcements to smile "crunchy" (to quote my cousin), kelly mcgillis provides the minimum union (plus it's ugly), while val kilmer balance we face a game nanardesque the possible (that's french dubbing grows in height).
anthony edwards to when it is about right, even if his side kick role supposed to be funny fail in the form of a big jerk.
the soundtrack to when it saves more or less the film, with its landmark songs such as top gun anthem, the famous ballad take my breath away, danger zone and mighty wings by cheap trick.
kitch to be, they are consistent with the tradition of hard rock fm boosted suddenly squeaky guitars and synths typically 80's.
in the film, they contribute to the ridicule of the atmosphere, but in itself it is still good for a few titles that loves the genre.
in the end, a disaster movie that even my great nostalgia for 80's fails to make me appreciate.
days of thunder i was even more convinced that the nanard beaufisant possible.
