and in my case, the crisis of faith, because i am originally an unconditional fan of madonna.
but this latest installment of the icon - and so far undisputed - undisputed pop is a bad surprise.
i was also very bad initiative to purchase the collector's version of the album, a product of an unusual hoax, overwhelming evidence of blatant commercialism of a madonna that has been more inspired in "l 'objetisation "of person.
let us speak first of the dressing and the visual aesthetic of the album; ciccone revives the imagery trasho-sexo sado-which however has backfired, and has the look of the brothel madam.
madonna poured into the pathos in attempting to prove that any strength, rising above human laws, it is able to exhibit in 50 years a body of goddess of youth dance at the waist and thighs tapered.
indeed, the line of singer commands admiration, but the fierce desire to shield her body with marks of time may seem alarming, if not boring.
as if the character ultimately be summed up this spartan master of the flesh.
to return to the "collector", it allows itself this name because of its size box, both bland remix of first single (wiz ze duet justin), and a packet ultra-collectorissime "(!) d ' odious mints (easy reference under hard candy i imagine) that even refuse to sell a motorway service station.
we come now to the musical aspect of the "thing".
madonna is a chameleon art, it is well known.
an opportunistic chameleon indeed, still able to incorporate his (lack of?) style to the latest musical trends.
the result is now a series of inept hip-hop candy that would not even daring to britney spears and other ryhanna.
you get to say that the chameleon cicconien hides a serious lack of artistic identity.
a platitude incomparable worn themes, silly nickname "hots" or pseudo-philosophical spiriualo.
the blonde idol - yet committed to selling so ignoble scams collector - keeps whistling that money and fame: "well, it's not the most important in life." nice post.
it could transmit its experience of a woman outside the norm, anything other than this pile of nonsense tart.
big, very big disappointment so.
