  thumb|200px|Logo del ALF El Frente de Liberación Animal (FLA), también conocido por su nombre en inglés Animal Liberation Front (ALF), es el nombre utilizado por activistas por los derechos de los animales que usan la acción directa para liberar animales. Esto incluye rescatarlos de instalaciones y sabotear estas como modo de protesta y boicot económico a la experimentación en animales, el uso de animales como vestimenta, el uso de animales como alimento u otras industrias basadas en la explotación a los animales. Cualquier acción directa que promueva la liberación animal y que "toma toda precaución razonable para no poner en peligro vidas de cualquier tipo" puede ser reclamada como hecha por el FLA, mientras que sea consistente con los otros objetivos de la organización.Best, Steven (ed), Terrorists or Freedom Fighters?, Lantern Books, 2004Los activistas del ALF son un modelo de lucha sin líderes. Las células del grupo, actualmente activas en alrededor de 35 países, operan clandestinamente e independientemente unas de otras. Una célula puede consistir en sólo una persona. Robin Webb, quien lleva la Oficina de prensa del Frente en el Reino Unido, ha dicho sobre este modelo de activismo: "Por esto es por lo que el FLA no puede ser destruido, no puede ser infiltrado, no puede ser parado. Vosotros, todos y cada uno de vosotros: vosotros sois el FLA."&quot;Staying on Target and Going the Distance: An Interview with U.K. A.L.F. Press Officer Robin Webb&quot;, No Compromise, Issue 22, undatedDirectrices del Frente de Liberación AnimalInfligir daño económico a quienes se lucran con "la miseria y la explotación de animales".Liberar animales desde centros de abuso, como: laboratorios, granjas factorías, granjas para piel, etc, y reubicarlos en buenos lugares donde puedan vivir naturalmente, libres de sufrimiento.Revelar el horror y atrocidades cometidas contra animales tras puertas cerradas, realizando acciones directas no violentas y liberaciones.Tomar todas las precauciones necesarias para no dañar animales, humanos y no humanos.Cualquier grupo de personas que sean vegetarianas o veganas y que realicen acciones de acuerdo con las directrices del FLA tienen derecho a nombrarse parte del FLA.Best, Steven (ed), Terrorists or Freedom Fighters?, Lantern Books, 2004Reivindicación de las acciones directasleft|thumb|220px|[[Beagles en poder de activistas británicos del ALF en 1990, sacados del laboratorio de pruebas Boots]] Las acciones son reivindicadas anónimamente contactando alguna de las oficinas de prensa del Frente, quienes publican algunas de ellas en sus páginas webwebsite de la oficina de prensa de liberación animal (Animal Liberation Press Office)  o son publicadas en Bite Back, el sitio web sobre acciones directas.website de Bite Back  La oficina de prensa es dirigida por Webb en el Reino Unido y por Jerry Vlasak en EEUU. A pesar de que el FLA no tiene existencia formal, el Animal Liberation Front Supporters Group (ALFSG)Animal Liberation Supporters Group website existe para apoyar a activistas que son encarcelados por actividades llevadas acabo en favor del FLA, y algunos activistas mantienen una página sobre el Frente de Liberación Animal.Animal Liberation Front websiteNo violencia y acusaciones de terrorismoLos activistas que hablan a favor del FLA esgrimen el argumento de que el movimiento es no violento. En una entrevista para Behind the Mask, un documental del 2006 sobre el FLA, el reconocido activista Rod Coronado dijo: "una cosa que yo se que nos separa a nosotros de las personas que se nos acusa de ser - esto es, de terroristas, criminales violentos- es el hecho de que no hemos dañado a nadie".Behind the Mask: The Story Of The People Who Risk Everything To Save Animals, una pelicula de Shannon Keith, 2006.  Grupos como el Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), que monitorea el terrorismo interno en USA, ha notado el desembolvimiento de activistas del FLA en la campaña Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty, que el SPLC dice que ocupa "francamente tácticas terroristas, similares a las ocupadas por extremistas anti aborto."8 El FLA ha sido descrito como una amenaza de terrorismo interno en UK, "Inside the ALF", Despachos con David Monagh, Channel 4 television, 1998. No esta claro si el Profesor Wilkinson se refiere al FLA o al Justice Department y al Animal Rights Militia, nombres usados por pequeños grupos con una relación no clara con el FLA. . y en Junio de 2005, fue declarado amenaza terrorista por el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional de los Estados Unidos.Rood, Justin. &quot;Animal Rights Groups and Ecology Militants Make DHS Terrorist List, Right-Wing Vigilantes Omitted&quot;, Congressional Quarterly, March 25, 2005.Tolson, Giselle. &quot;The ALF: America’s Favorite 'Terrorists'&quot;, The Bard Observer, Issue 15, 2006, retrieved August 17, 2006. El FBI considera al FLA como una de las 10 principales organizaciones terroristas del país.[http://www.mitosyfraudes.org/INDICE/Cap12-WWF.pdf Eduardo Ferreyra, "Ecología: Mitos y Fraudes", pág. 234]. URL accedida el 06-02-2008.Rood, Justin. &quot;Animal Rights Groups and Ecology Militants Make DHS Terrorist List, Right-Wing Vigilantes Omitted&quot;, Congressional Quarterly, March 25, 2005.Tolson, Giselle. &quot;The ALF: America’s Favorite 'Terrorists'&quot;, The Bard Observer, Issue 15, 2006, retrieved August 17, 2006. (See below.)Originsruns the Animal Liberation Press Office in the U.S.]]The ALF's roots can be traced to 19th century England, and a small group of activists called the Bands of Mercy, which was set up in 1824 to thwart fox hunters (Best, 2004). In 1965, the group was re-created, this time called the Hunt Saboteurs Association; it laid false scents, blew hunting horns to send the hounds in the wrong direction, set off smoke bombs, and members lay down between the hunters and the fox. In 1972, activists Ronnie Lee and Cliff Goodman revived the 19th century name and set up the Band of Mercy, a more militant group, which attacked hunters' vehicles by slashing tires and breaking windows. They progressed to attacking pharmaceutical laboratories and seal-hunting boats. On November 10, 1973, they set fire to a building in Milton Keynes, as part of a strategy to make insurance prohibitive for what they saw as exploitative industries, and thus began a campaign of arson that continues to this day.  was a five-week-old macaque who was left alone with his eyes sewn shut by researchers for the University of California, Riverside. The ALF removed him in April 1985 and released a videotape of their raid. http://www.cjonline.org/animalsDissection2Britches.htm ]]In August 1974, Lee and Goodman were arrested for allegedly taking part in a raid on Oxford Laboratory Animal Colonies in Bicester, which earned them the name the "Bicester Two." They were sentenced to three years in prison, but released after serving one.After his release, Goodman allegedly became the first-ever police informer on the animal liberation movement (Best 2004, p. 20), whereas Lee emerged from prison more militant than before. He organized 30 activists to set up a new liberation campaign, and in 1976, in order to show that the new campaign was prepared to intimidate but was also compassionate, he named it the Animal Liberation Front (ibid).There are conflicting accounts of when the ALF first emerged in the United States. Freeman Wicklund and Kim Stallwood (Best 2004) say the first ALF action there was in 1977, when activists released two dolphins from a research facility in Hawaii. Others say the first action was a raid on the New York University Medical Center on March 14, 1979, when activists removed one cat, two dogs, and two guinea pigs. Ingrid Newkirk, the president of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, says that the first ALF cell in the U.S. was set up in late 1982, with the first raid taking place on December 24 that year on Howard University, when 24 cats were removed, some of whose back legs had been crippled in an experiment. Newkirk 2000, and Best 2004:21.The ALF also claimed responsibility for the 1983 raid on the University of Pennsylvania's Head Injury Clinic. The ALF caused significant damage and stole 60 hours of research tapes that documented what had been done to the animals. Subsequently, the material was turned over to PETA who edited the content and added voiceover commentary to produce a video called Unnecessary Fuss which was released to schools, politicians and the news media. On the basis of the edited tape, PETA petitioned the Office for Protection from Research Risks (OPRR) to have the lab closed. The OPRR initially refused to act on the basis of edited material and after more than a year of refusing to turn over the tapes, PETA eventually did so. In spite of the fact that the edited version of the material was found to have "grossly overstated the deficiencies in the Head Injury Clinic", OPRR did find serious violations of accepted procedure. As a result, the university was put on probation, the Head Injury Clinic was closed, the chief veterninarian was fired, the administration of the program was reorganized and new training programs for staff were instituted.http://onlineethics.org/reseth/nbac/hmccarthy.htmlOn April 20, 1985, the ALF raided the University of California, Riverside laboratory to remove Britches, a five-week old macaque monkey who had been separated from his mother and left alone in a wire cage with his eyes sewn shut as part of a maternal- and sensory-deprivation experiment http://www.cjonline.org/animalsDissection2Britches.htm (video). As a result of the ensuing publicity, eight of the 17 research projects active at the laboratory at the time of the raid were shut down (Best 2004:22).Structure and aimsThe ALF is entirely decentralized: an example of so-called leaderless resistance, with no formal membership or hierarchy, which acts as a formal firebreak in issues of legal and moral responsibility or accountability. There are active ALF cells in 20 countries: most European and Scandinavian countries, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Russia, and South Africa.  runs the Animal Liberation Press Office in the UK.]]According to Robin Webb, who runs the Animal Liberation Press Office in the UK, the ALF's stated aims are:(1) "To liberate animals from suffering or potential suffering and place them in good permanent homes or, where appropriate, release them into their natural environment."(2) "To damage or destroy property and equipment associated with animal abuse, by taking that property out of the arena of animal abuse so it can no longer cause harm, and inflicting economic loss on the abusers with the intention of driving them out of business."(3) "To take all reasonable precautions not to endanger life of any kind." Best 2004In an undated interview with No Compromise, the animal-liberation magazine, Webb said that any vegetarian or vegan who carries out an action that falls within the ALF's policies may claim that action on behalf of the ALF.Activists who have engaged in direct action that could endanger life have acted using the names Animal Rights Militia, or the Justice Department, which has sent out letter bombs and envelopes containing blades dipped in rat poison.Regarding the difference between the ALF, ARM, and the Justice Department, Webb has said: "If someone wishes to act as the Animal Rights Militia or the Justice Department? Simply put, the third policy of the ALF take all reasonable precautions not to endanger life no longer applies." http://www.nocompromise.org/issues/22robin.htmlHe has said elsewhere that: "The only difference between ALF and the more radical ones is that ALF basically takes every precaution not to endanger life at any time. The Animal Rights Militia are prepared to twist the arm of animal abusers".ActionsEarly ALF covert operations tended to centre on the removal, or liberation, of animals from vivisection laboratories. However, in recent years, these have extended to vandalism, arson, and making threats against individuals who directly or indirectly work for organizations the ALF has targeted.There were 1,200 fire bombings, acts of vandalism, and physical attacks in the UK in 1999 connected to animal-rights activism, according to the BBC. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/902751.stmOne of the most highly publicized actions, which was claimed by the Animal Rights Militia, was the 1984 "Mars Bar campaign" in Britain, during which activists issued statements claiming Mars Bars in supermarkets had been contaminated with bleach, in protest at the Mars Corporation's funding of dental research using monkeys. The incident was revealed to have been a hoax, but it led to widespread criticism of the ALF and caused a split with the pacifist magazine Peace News, which had previously allowed the ALF to use its Nottingham office as a mailing address.In 1998, the ALF claimed responsibility for releasing into the wild up to 6,000 mink from a mink farm in Ringwood, UK. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/148120.stm The action was described by a Royal Society for the Protection of Birds spokesman as an "act of monumental stupidity," http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/148420.stm amid fears that the non-native carnivorous minks would cause ecological damage. The ALF said it would continue its campaign until the British government introduced new animal-welfare legislation for animals used by the fur industry. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/153504.stmIn 1999, British documentary-filmmaker Graham Hall, himself an animal-rights activist, told the police and the Mail on Sunday http://www.i-mockery.com/meatatarian/branded.htm that he was kidnapped and branded with the letters "ALF" across his back after filming ALF activists, including Robin Webb, "boasting about bomb making and choosing sites for violent attacks." http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/507947.stm His film was shown on Channel 4 in the UK during the 1998 hunger strike of Barry Horne. Hall said he was taken by several masked men, one of whose voices he said he recognized from a previous gathering of activists, to an unknown house, then was tied to a chair for several hours and branded. No charges were laid as a result of his complaint http://www.animalsagenda.org/articledetail.asp?Menu=News&amp;NewsID=291 http://www.animalaid.org.uk/news/9912crim.htm. In response to the attack, Robin Webb stated "People who make a living in this way have to expect from time to time to take the consequences of their actions" http://www.i-mockery.com/meatatarian/branded.htm. In June 2005, a Vancouver-based brokerage announced that it had dropped a client, Phytopharm PLC, in response to the May 26, 2005 ALF firebombing of a car belonging to Canaccord executive Michael Kendall in London, England. The ALF stated on its website that activists had placed an "incendiary device" under the car, which was in Kendall's garage at home when it caught fire. Phytopharm was targeted, as were those doing business with it, because it, in turn, had business links with Huntingdon Life Sciences (HLS), the largest animal-testing company in Europe, which has laboratories in the UK and New Jersey. Since 1999, HLS has been the subject of an international animal-rights campaign, Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (SHAC), which ALF activists have been heavily involved in.The ALF and SHAC have declared they will target anyone doing business with HLS. The ALF warned Phytopharm to stay away from Huntingdon or "see your share price crash and your supporters property go up in flames," http://www.theglobeandmail.com/servlet/ArticleNews/TPStory/LAC/20050624/RCANNA24/TPBusiness/TopStories and issued the following statement: A new era has dawned for those who fund the abusers and raise funds for them to murder animals with. You too are on the hit list: you have been warned. If you support or raise funds for any company connected with Huntingdon Life Sciences we will track you down, come for you and destroy your property with fire. http://www.guardian.co.uk/animalrights/story/0,11917,1514393,00.htmlAttitude toward violenceThe ALF defines itself as non-violent, defining "violence" as acts of physical aggression directed at human and non-human animals http://www.animalliberationfront.com/ALFront/Behind_The_Mask.pdf (pdf). No direct action that has involved violence may be claimed on behalf of the ALF, although ALF spokespersons won't condemn the use of violence by people who have previously acted in the name of the ALF. When David Blenkinsop and two others assaulted HLS director Brian Cass outside his home with pick-axe handles, ALF founder Ronnie Lee said: "He has got off lightly. I have no sympathy for him," http://www.splcenter.org/intel/intelreport/article.jsp?aid=42 and Robin Webb said: "The Animal Liberation Front has always had a policy of not harming life, but while it would not condone what took place, it understands the anger and frustration that leads people to take this kind of action." http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/main.jhtml?xml=/news/2001/02/24/nhls124.xml The Animal Liberation Front Supporters Group lists Blenkinsop as one of its prisoners of conscience. http://www.alfsg.org.uk/prisoners.htmlWebb has written that during the 1970s and early 1980s, the media portrayed animal-rights activists in a positive light, as animal lovers who were merely eccentric and who were taking things a little too far: the "Robin Hoods of the animal welfare world" (Best 2004). But by the mid-80s, activists realized that economic sabotage was more effective than demonstrations and handing out leaflets. Activists moved on to smashing butchers' shop windows and setting fire to department stores that sold fur coats. In 1985, the Animal Rights Militia first emerged, taking responsibility for sending letter bombs to those involved in animal testing, and setting fire to stores on the Isle of Wight in 1994, causing $6 million worth of damages. Barry Horne, who was a close friend of Webb's, was subsequently jailed for 18 years for the attacks, later dying in jail during a hunger strike, and Webb himself was almost charged with conspiracy in connection with them.In response to the emergence of a more violent strain of protester in the UK, the British police set up the Animal Rights National Index (ARNI) in or around 1985, which was intended to act as a liaison between the police and MI5, the internal security service, which had started to monitor activists. Violence against property began to increase substantially after several high-profile campaigns managed to close down a number of facilities perceived to be abusive to animals: Consort, a facility breeding beagles for animal-testing, followed by Hillgrove Farm, which bred cats, and Newchurch Farm, which bred guinea pigs. The financial year 1991-1992 saw around 100 refrigerated meat trucks destroyed at a cost of around $10 million. Butchers' locks were superglued, shrink-wrapped meats were pierced in supermarkets, and slaughterhouses were set on fire (Webb, in Best 2004).The latest international campaign, Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty, which ALF activists are involved in, aims to close Huntingdon Life Sciences, Europe's largest animal-testing laboratory. In response to the campaign, which operates as a leaderless resistance using direct-action tactics, the British government set up the National Extremism Tactical Coordination Unit in May 2004, either to replace or complement the work of ARNI, and has declared it will do whatever it takes to ensure that the animal-rights lobby will not succeed in closing down HLS, though the company's future is looking increasingly bleak as investors sell their shares, and business partners and clients distance themselves for fear of reprisals. In Terrorists or Freedom Fighters, a collection of essays by animal-rights activists edited by philosopher Steven Best, an ALF press officer, Webb quotes Gandhi, saying: "Where there is only a choice between cowardice and violence, I would advise violence." Webb argues that: "While politicians talked and negotiated, Nazi Germany invaded neighboring countries and began building the concentration camps. It took the overwhelming violence of World War II ... to rid the world of that evil. Such an example suggests that short-term violence may be justifiable in pursuit of a longer-term peace," (Best 2004).Direct action in North America, a prominent ALF activist in the United States, has been convicted of crimes related to damaging research facilities and releasing animals.]]Attacks claimed by the ALF in the U.S. have been carried out at:University of MinnesotaCornell UniversityThe Cavel West horse rendering plantEmory UniversityCarolina Biological Supply CompanyUtah State UniversityMichigan State UniversityOregon State UniversityWashington State UniversityUniversity of IowaTexas Tech UniversityLouisiana State UniversityStanford UniversityOn January 20, 2006, as part of Operation Backfire, the U.S. Department of Justice announced charges against nine American and two Canadian activists calling themselves the "Family," who are alleged to have engaged in direct action in the name of the Animal Liberation Front and Earth Liberation Front. The defendants are alleged to have committed what the Justice Department called acts of "domestic terrorism," including arson attacks against meat-processing plants, lumber companies, a high-tension power line, and a ski center, in Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, California, and Colorado between 1996 and 2001. http://www.usdoj.gov/opa/pr/2006/January/06_crm_030.html Activists and some media sources criticised the 2005/06 investigations, calling them a "witch hunt" http://www.fbiwitchhunt.com/about.html and "the Green Scare" http://www.indybay.org/news/2006/02/1804675.php - an allusion to the anti-Communist Red Scares of the 20th century.The ALF took credit in June 2006 for targeting UCLA researcher Lynn Fairbanks with a firebomb. The Animal Liberation Press Office issued a statement in which they claimed that Fairbanks conducts "painful addiction experiments" on monkeys, although Fairbanks said she studies primate behavior and does not do invasive research. The bomb was placed on the doorstep of a house occupied by Fairbanks' 70 year-old neighbor and a tenant. According to the FBI, the device was lit but failed to ignite and was powerful enough to have killed the occupants. A spokesman described the incident as "consistent with a pattern of escalation by both animal rights and environmental extremist groups". The incident is credited by the acting chancellor of UCLA as helping to shape the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act, a bill before the US Congress to help law-enforcement deal with violent extremists Trounson, Rebecca & Mozingo, Joe. &quot;UCLA to Protect Animal Research&quot;, LA Times, August 26, 2006..As a result of the actions against Fairbanks, and after his personal information had been posted on the Primate Freedom Project at UCLA website and receiving threatening phone calls, Dario Ringach, an associate neurobiology professor at UCLA, issued a statement in August, 2006, that he would discontinue his animal research into visual processing. University spokeswoman Judy Lin was quoted in the press as saying "this is a problem that's much larger than UCLA. These groups have been harassing researchers all over the world," she continued "It has reached terrorist level. The university is very disturbed by this." “You Win”- UCLA Vivisector Dario Ringach Quits Animal Experimentation ALF Press Statement,Researcher vows to stop using animals Daily Bruin, Aug 14, 2006''Behind the Mask'' documentary, a documentary about the ALF produced by animal-rights lawyer, Shannon Keith ]]In 2006, after three years of filming, animal-rights lawyer Shannon Keith Shannon Keith's animal-rights legal practice released a documentary about the ALF entitled "Behind the Mask: The Story Of The People Who Risk Everything To Save Animals". The documentary was produced in response to what the ALF sees as a growing bias within the mainstream media against the animal rights movement, both above and underground.Listing as a terrorist threatThe ALF was named as a terrorist threat by the United States Department of Homeland Security in January 2005. http://www.cq.com/public/20050325_homeland.html In hearings held on May 18, 2005 before a Senate panel, officials of the FBI and ATF stated that "violent animal rights extremists and eco-terrorists now pose one of the most serious terrorism threats to the nation," adding that "of particular concern are the Animal Liberation Front (ALF) and the Earth Liberation Front (ELF)." http://www.cnn.com/2005/US/05/19/domestic.terrorism/The Southern Poverty Law Center has criticized the DHS for concentrating on the Animal and Earth Liberation Fronts rather than on white supremacists, writing that "for all the property damage they have wreaked, eco-radicals have killed no one — something that cannot be said of the white supremacists and others who people the American radical right." http://www.splcenter.org/center/splcreport/article.jsp?aid=164 Senator James Jeffords said that the "ELF and ALF may threaten dozens of people each year, but an incident at a chemical, nuclear or wastewater facility would threaten tens of thousands." http://www.cnn.com/2005/US/05/19/domestic.terrorism/The Daily Telegraph has called the ALF "the most active terrorist organisation in Britain," http://www.opinion.telegraph.co.uk/opinion/main.jhtml?xml=/opinion/2006/02/21/dl2102.xml&amp;sSheet=/opinion/2006/02/21/ixopinion.html a view echoed by Paul Wilkinson of St Andrews University who, in 1998, stated that the ALF and its splinter groups were the "most serious domestic terrorist threat within the United Kingdom," and are "very close" to killing someone. He added: "Keith Mann who was sentenced to 11 years for his extremist violence said in a message to ALF activists that sooner or later someone would die. He didn’t express any remorse about this or any regret. Now that does show to me a level of fanaticism which is very dangerous indeed." 1998 Dispatches Programmme with David Monagh, Produced by Channel 4 - 'Inside the ALF'Operation Backfire is (or was) a FBI initiated program launched against this and related organizations.See alsoAnarquismo y derechos animalesJustice Department (animal rights), Animal Rights MilitiaBarry HorneGANDALF trialStop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty, SPEAKOperation Backfire (FBI)Green ScareTerrorist OrganisationsFurther readingAnimal Liberation Front website - Global websiteAnimal Liberation Front Press Office website - USAnimal Liberation Front Supporters GroupOfficial ALF Forum[http://arkangelweb.org/ Arkangel], a magazine dedicated to animal liberation[http://www.directaction.info/ Bite Back] a magazine and diary of Animal Liberation Front actions[http://www.nocompromise.org/ No Compromise] a militant, direct action publication of grassroots animal liberation and its supportersAnimal Liberation Front (ALF) Frequently Asked Questions by the North American ALF Supporters Group.Animal Liberation Through Trade Unions?&quot;Animal rights extremists in arson spree&quot; by Sandra Laville and Duncan Campbell, The Guardian, June 25, 2005&quot;Animal rights, terror tactics&quot;, BBC, August 30, 2000ADL Entry forthe ALF and EcoTerrorismFBI testimony on the ALF, James F. Jarboe before the House Resources Committee, Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, February 12, 2002.&quot;From Push to Shove&quot;, Southern Poverty Law Center Intelligence Report, fall 2002Ingrid Newkirk, Free the Animals: The Story of the Animal Liberation Front, Lantern Books, 2000, ISBN 1-930051-22-0&quot;Interviews with AR activists and supporters of AR activists&quot;, Animal Liberation Front, retrieved October 27, 2005&quot;Staying on Target and Going the Distance: An Interview with U.K. A.L.F. Press Officer Robin Webb&quot;, No Compromise, Issue 22, undatedSourceWatch article on ALFVideotape of an actual Animal Liberation Front raid on the University of California, Riverside, raid filmed on April 20, 1985, released by the ALF and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, retrieved February 13, 2006www.fbi.gov:Search:Single Issue Terrorists/Domestic Terrorists: Animal Liberation FrontReferencias  Véase tambiénBarry HorneEnlaces externosAnimal Liberation Front (ALF) (en inglés)El FLA y el FLT consideradas organizaciones terroristasBite Back. Sitio web sobre acciones directas.Categoría:Derechos de los animales Categoría:Ecoterrorismo Categoría:Organizaciones ecologistas Categoría:Organizaciones terroristasda:Animal Liberation Front de:Animal Liberation Front en:Animal Liberation Front et:Loomade Vabastusrinne fi:Eläinten vapautusrintama fr:Front de libération des animaux he:החזית לשחרור בעלי חיים it:Animal Liberation Front ja:動物解放戦線 ko:동물해방전선 lt:Gyvūnų išlaisvinimo frontas nl:Animal Liberation Front pl:Front Wyzwolenia Zwierząt pt:Animal Liberation Front ru:Фронт освобождения животных sk:Animal Liberation Front sr:Front oslobođenja životinja sv:Animal Liberation Front szl:Frůnt Wyswobodzyńo Zwjyřůnt tr:Hayvan Kurtuluş Cephesi zh:动物解放阵线