Anodización o anodizado es una técnica utilizada para modificar la superficie de un material. Se conoce como anodizado a la capa de protección artificial que se genera sobre el aluminio mediante el óxido protector del aluminio, conocido como alúmina. Esta capa se consigue por medio de procedimientos electroquímicos, de manera que se consigue una mayor resistencia y durabilidad del aluminio.Con estos procedimientos se consigue la oxidación de la superficie del aluminio, creando una capa de alúmina protectora para el resto de la pieza. La protección del aluminio dependerá en gran medida del espesor de esta capa (en micras).tienen una superficie en aluminio anodizado, pudiendo tener diversos colores.]]El nombre del proceso deriva del hecho que la pieza a tratar con este material hace de ánodo en el circuito eléctrico de este proceso electrolítico.La anodización es usada frecuentemente para proteger el aluminio y el titanio de la abrasión, la corrosión, y para poder ser tintado en una amplia variedad de colores.Las técnicas de anodizado han evolucionado mucho con el paso del tiempo y la competencia en los mercados por lo que pasamos de una capa de óxido de aluminio con el color gris propio de este óxido hasta la coloración posterior a la formación de la capa hasta obtener colores tales como oro, bronce, negro y rojo. Las últimas técnicas basadas en procesos de interferencia óptica pueden proporcionar acabados tales como azul, gris perla y verde.Hay distintos métodos de coloración de las capas de óxido formadas: coloración por sales y coloración por tintes siendo la primera opción la más habitual y la que más calidad en acabado y durabilidad garantiza.Como técnica reciente se está desarrollando los acabados por interferencia (azul, gris y verde)basados en modificaciones posteriores del poro del óxido de aluminio formado en la etapa propia de anodizado. Esta modificación microscópica del poro se consigue mediante reproducción de condiciones de temperatura,concentraciones de electrolito, voltajes, superficie de carga afectada y características de la aleación.1 µm and up to 2.5 µm compared with much less than 1 µm for un-anodized specimens) and a characteristic surface topography. It has been suggested that both of these parameters improve the performance—longevity, stability—of dental implants, but the technology is still new and there are not yet clear clinical data to support these claims.Anodizing is also said to impart anti-galling properties on threaded components.Anodizing titanium generates an array of different colors without dyes. The color formed is dependent on the thickness of the oxide (which is determined by the anodising voltage); it is caused by the interference of light reflecting off the oxide surface with light traveling through it and reflecting off the underlying metal surface. Titanium nitride coatings can also be formed, which have a brown or golden color and have the same wear and corrosion benefits as anodization.Anodized [[niobium]]This anodizes in a similar fashion to titanium with a range of attractive colors being formed by interference at different film thicknesses. Again the film thickness is dependent on the anodising voltage. Uses include jewelry and commemorative coins.Anodized aluminiumAnodized aluminium can be found in iPod minis, 2nd generation iPod nanos, cookware, cameras, sporting goods, and many other products due to its aesthetic and corrosion protection properties. Most aluminium aircraft parts including major components are anodised before assembly and painting. Anodised aluminium is also a popular choice of material for flashlights.The aluminium oxide coating is grown from and into the surface of the aluminium. Because of this it is not prone to peeling or cracking like organic coatings such as paint. Aluminium oxide also possesses excellent thermal and electrical insulation qualities.HARDCOAT ANODISINGHardcoat anodising is an electrochemical process that yields an anodic oxide, integral to the aluminium part. The layer increases the resistance of corrosion, wear and friction (with use of lubricants because of it's porous structure it keeps the lubricating film stronger than a smooth surface). For example the cylinders of a BMW modern aluminium V8 has no loose liner, instead they hardcoated the walls. It also increase the electrical and thermal insulation.Like other forms of anodising (such as Type I Chromic Acid Anodising or Type II Sulfuric Acid Anodising), Hardcoat Anodising (also known as Type III) is produced by immersing the aluminium components into an electrolyte solution, it differs from the other by the possibility to make it up to 20 times thicker(0.008in).The hardcoat layer is eqivalent to one of the hardest materials on earth: ruby (Al2O3)in industrial terms hardness of 60 to 65 Rockwell on the C scale.The colour of it ranges from gray to dark brownChemistryAluminium, when exposed to the atmosphere, forms a passive oxide layer, which provides moderate protection against corrosion. This layer is strongly adherent because it is chemically bound to the metal surface as compared to oxidation (corrosion) in steel, where rust puffs up and flakes off, constantly exposing new metal to corrosion. In its pure form aluminium self-passivates very effectively, but its alloys, especially 6000 series due to the magnesium content, are far more prone to atmospheric corrosion and therefore benefit from the protective quality of anodising.Before being treated, the aluminium, if wrought, is cleaned in either a hot soak cleaner or in a solvent bath and may be etched in sodium hydroxide (normally with added sodium gluconate), ammonium bifluoride or brightened in a mix of acids. Cast alloys are normally best just cleaned due to the presence of intermetallics unless they are a high purity alloy such as LM0.In anodizing aluminium, this aluminium oxide layer is made thicker by passing a DC current through a sulfuric acid solution, with the aluminium object serving as the anode (the positive electrode). The current releases hydrogen at the cathode (the negative electrode) and oxygen at the surface of the aluminium anode, creating a buildup of aluminium oxide. Anodizing at 12 V DC, a piece of aluminium with an area of 1 square decimeter (about 15.5 square inches) can consume roughly 1 ampere of current. In commercial applications the voltage used is more normally in the region of 15 to 21 V.Conditions such as acid concentration, solution temperature, and current must be controlled to allow the formation of a consistent oxide layer, which can be many times thicker than would otherwise be formed. This oxide layer increases both the hardness and the corrosion resistance of the aluminium surface. The oxide forms as microscopic hexagonal "pipe" crystals of corundum, each having a central hexagonal pore (which is also the reason that an anodized part can take on color in the dyeing process). The film thickness can range from under 5 micrometres on bright decorative work to over 25 micrometres for architectural applications.The older chromic acid method produces thinner, more opaque films that are softer, ductile, and to a degree self-healing. They are harder to dye and may be applied as a pretreatment before painting. The method of film formation is different to using sulfuric acid in that the voltage is ramped up through the process cycle.==Coloreado y Acabado==--  se recubre con un acabado usando el anodizado y posteriormente es coloreado mediante interferencia.]] ==Enlaces externos==[http://www.coatfab.com/anodising.htm Artículo sobre la anodización extraído de la Coating and Fabrications Magazine]Anodización de aluminio por DIYEjemplo práctico en castellano.Categoría:Procesos físicoscs:Eloxování de:Eloxal-Verfahren en:Anodizing fi:Anodisointi fr:Anodisation he:אלגון hu:Eloxálás ja:アルマイト nl:Anodiseren pl:Anodowanie ru:Анодирование sk:Anodická oxidácia hliníka sv:Eloxering